1. Establishment of the National Lottery Regulatory Commission

(1) There is established a body to be known as the National Lottery Regulatory

Commission (in this Act referred to as "the Commission").

(2) The Commission-

(a) shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal;

(b) may sue or be sued in its corporate name; and

(c) may acquire, hold or dispose of any property, movable or immovable for the
purpose of carrying out any of its functions under this Act.

2. Establishment and membership of the Governing Board

(1) There is established for the Commission, a governing body to be known as the
National Lottery Regulatory Commission Governing Board (in this Act referred to as
''the Board") which shall have overall control of the Commission.

(2) The Board shall consist of-

(a) a part-time Chairman;

(b) a representative each of-

(i) the Federal Ministry of Commerce;
(i) the Federal Ministry of Finance;
(iii) the Federal Ministry of Sports;

(d) six other members, one per geopolitical zone, who shall be persons of integrity
possessing cognate experience in relevant fields and versed in regulatory issues; and

(d) the Director-General of the Commission.

(3) The Chairman and members of the Board shall-

(a) be appointed by the President; and

(b) serve on part-time basis.

(4) The supplementary provisions set out in the First Schedule to this Act shall have
effect with respect to the proceedings of the Board and the other matters mentioned
therein.

[First Schedule.]

3. Tenure of office

The Chairman and other members of the Board, other than ex officio members, shall
each hold office-

(a) for a term of four years in the first instance and may be re-appointed for a further term of four years and no more; and

(b) on such terms and conditions as may be specified in his letter of appointment.

4. Cessation of membership

(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 3 of this Act, a member of the Board
shall cease to hold office as a member of the Board if-

(a) he resigns his appointment as a member of the Board by notice, under his hand, addressed to the President;

(b) he becomes of unsound mind;

(c) he becomes bankrupt or makes a compromise with his creditors;

(d) he is convicted of a felony or of any offence involving dishonesty or corruption

(e) he becomes incapable of carrying on the functions of his office either arising
from an infirmity of mind or body; or

(f) the President is satisfied that it is not in the interest of the Commission or in
the interest of the public for the person to continue in office and the President
removes him from office.

(2) Where a vacancy occurs in the membership of the Board, it shall be filled by the
appointment of a successor to hold office for the remainder of the term of office of his
predecessor, so however that the successor shall represent the same interest as his
predecessor.

5. Emoluments, etc., of members

The Chairman and members of the Board shall be paid such emoluments, allowances
and benefits as the President may, from time to time, direct in line with the recommendation
of the Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission.

6. Powers of the Board

(1) The Board shall have power to-

(a) provide the general policy guidelines relating to the functions of the Commission;

(b) manage and superintend the policies of the Commission;

(c) determine the terms and conditions of service of the employees of the
Commission;

(d) fix the remuneration, allowances and benefits of the staff and employees of the
Commission in consultation with the National Salaries, Income and Wages Commission; and

(e) do such other things which in its opinion are necessary to ensure the efficient
performance of the functions of the Commission under this Act.

PART II

Functions of the Commission

7. Functions of the CommissionThe Commission shall-

(a) regulate the operation and business of the national lottery in Nigeria;

(b) in collaboration with the licensee, set standards, guidelines and rules for the
operation of national lottery in Nigeria;

(c) promote transparency, propriety and integrity in the operation of national lottery in Nigeria;

(d) ensure the protection of the interests of players, stakeholders and the public in
the national lottery;

(e) carry out periodic assessment of the operation of national lottery in Nigeria
and submit report to the President and the National Assembly; and

(f ) perform such other duties as may be directed by the President, from time to
time, and as are necessary or expedient to ensure the efficient performance of
the functions of the Commission under this Act.

PART III

Staff of the Commission

8. Director-General of the Commission, etc.

(1) There shall be for the Commission, a Director-General who shall-

(a) be appointed by the President subject to confirmation by the Senate;

(b) be the Chief Executive and accounting officer of the Commission; and

(c) be responsible for the execution of the policy and day to day administration of the Commission.

(2) The Director-General shall hold office

(a) for a term of four years in the first instance and may be re-appointed for a further term of four years and no more; and

(b) on such terms and conditions as may be specified in his letter of appointment.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2) of this section, the Director-
General may-

(a) resign his appointment by a notice in writing under his hand, addressed to the
President through the Board; or

(b) be removed by the President for inability to discharge the functions of his office
(whether arising from infirmity of mind or body or any other cause) or for misconduct or corruption.

9. Other staff of the Commission

The Commission may, subject to the approval of the Board, appoint such other staff
as it may deem necessary and expedient, from time to time-

(a) for the proper and efficient performance of the functions of the Commission;
and

(b) on such terms and conditions as may be determined, from time to time, by the Board.

10. Act 2004 No.2

Service in the Commission shall be subject to the provisions of the Pension Reform
Act, and accordingly, officers and employees of the Commission shall be entitled to pensions
and other retirement benefits as are prescribed under the Pension Reform Act.

PART IV

Financial Provisions

11. Fund of the Commission

The Commission shall establish and maintain a fund to which shall be paid and

credited-

(a) any take-off grants from the Federal Government;

(b) annual subventions and budgetary allocations from the Federal Government;

(c) gifts, loans, grants-in-aid from national, bilateral and multi-lateral organisations, agencies and bodies;

(d) charges, fees and other internally generated revenues by the Commission; and

(e) all other sums accruing to the Commission from time to time.

12. Expenditure of the Commission

The Commission may, from time to time, apply the proceeds of the fund established
under section 11 of this Act-

(a) to the cost of administration of the Commission;

(b) to the payment of the emoluments, allowances and benefits of members of the
Board and for reimbursing members of the Board or of any committee set up
by the Board and for such expenses as may be expressly authorised by the Board;

(c) to the payment of the salaries, fees or other remuneration or allowances, pensions,
and other benefits payable to the staff and other employees of the Commission, so
however that no payment of any kind under this paragraph (except
such as may be expressly authorised by the Board) shall be made to any person
who is in receipt of emoluments from the Government of the Federation or of a
State;

(d) for the development and maintenance of any property vested in or owned by the Commission;

(e) for payment for all consultancies, legal fees and cost of contracts administration;

(f ) for payment for all purchases made by the Commission;

(g) for maintaining general financial reserves subject to general or special directives
that may be given in that behalf by the President in accordance with the provisions of this Act; and

(h) for any expenditure in connection with all or any of its functions under this Act.

13. Annual estimates and accounts

(1) The Commission shall, not later than 30th September in each year, submit to the
President an estimate of its expenditure and income (including payments to the Commission fund) for the next succeeding year.

(2) The Commission shall keep proper accounts in respect of each year and proper
records in relation to those accounts and shall cause its accounts to be audited within
three months after the end of each year by auditors appointed from the list and in accordance
with the guidelines supplied by the Auditor-General for the Federation.

14. Annual reports

The Commission shall prepare and submit to the President and the Auditor-General of
the Federation not later than 31st March in each year a report in such form as the President
may direct on the activities of the Commission during the immediate preceding year,
and shall include in the report a copy of the audited accounts of the Commission for that
year and of the auditor's report thereon.

15. Power to accept gifts

(1) The Commission may accept gift of land, money or other property on such terms
and conditions, if any, as may be specified by the person or organisation making the gift.

,(2) The Commission shall not accept any gift if the conditions attached by the person
or organisation making the gift are inconsistent with the functions of the Commission
under this Act.

16. Power to borrow

The Commission may, with the approval of the President, borrow by way of loan,
overdraft or otherwise from any source such sums as it may require for the performance
of its functions and meeting its obligations under this Act.

PART V

Operation of National Lottery, etc.

National Lottery Licence

17. Operation of the business of a national lottery

As from the commencement of this Act, the operation of the business of a national
lottery or any lottery, by whatever name called, shall be subject to a licence granted by
the President upon recommendation by the Commission and compliance with the provisions
of this Act or any regulations made pursuant thereto.

18. Application for licence

Any person or body corporate may submit application for a licence for the operation
of the business of a national lottery to the President through the Commission in the pre-
scribed form and upon the payment of such fees as may be prescribed, from time to time,
by the Commission.

19. Grant of licence

(1) The President may grant a licence to any person or body corporate to operate a
national lottery or any lottery, by whatever name called, if the President is satisfied that
the applicant-

(a) is a fit and proper person to manage the business or any part of the business of
a national lottery;

(b) has the relevant knowledge, expertise and experience to manage the business
or any part of the business of operating a national lottery;

(c) is capable of mobilising sufficient financial resources to ensure financial vi-
ability of the business of operating a national lottery; and

(d) has made an undertaking to conduct the business of a national lottery with all
due property, corruption free, accountability, transparency and protection of
the interests of participating stakeholders and the public.

(2) Any licence granted under subsection (1) of this section may be subject to such
terms and conditions as the President may, from time to time determine, and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, such conditions shall include-

(a) the percentage of the net proceeds payable to the Trust Fund established under
section 35 of this Act and the frequency of such payment in respect of all individual lotteries
operated pursuant to the licence; and

(b) whether or not the licence is exclusive in respect of all or individual lotteries
operated by the licensee.

(3) If any change occurs in the information provided in the application for a licence
by any person or body corporate (including any documents lodged with the application)
before the application is granted or refused, the applicant shall forthwith submit to the
President written particulars of the change.

20. Duration of a licence

(1) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, a licence granted under section 19 of this
Act shall be valid for a minimum period of 10 years and a maximum of 15 years.

(2) The President may, at least one year before the expiry of a licence, upon recom-
mendation by the Commission, extend the term of the licence for such further period as
the President may, from time to time determine, not being in excess of 10 years.

(3) During the duration of the licence, the licensee shall be entitled to use the words
"national lottery" as an identification and endorsement for any or all lotteries operated
under the licence.

21. Revocation of licence

(1) Notwithstanding section 20 of this Act, a licence granted under this Act may be
revoked by the President if-

(a) the licensee is no longer a fit and proper person to carry on the business of a
national lottery, whether arising from insolvency, liquidation or any other valid reason;

(b) there has been a contravention or a breach of any of the conditions contained
in the licence;

(c) any person for whose benefit the licence has been acquired or who is a holding
company of the licensee or who in any other way controls the licence, is not a
fit and proper person to benefit from it, whether arising from insolvency, liquidation, confinement in
prison or other institution or any other relevant reason;

(d) the licensee has failed to take adequate steps to prevent the Commission of
fraud by its employees, after having been alerted or becoming aware of the
conditions conducive to the commission of fraud, or to instances of fraud or
dishonesty;

(e) the licensee or any of its employees unlawfully prevents the President, the
Commission or any authorised person from carrying out his or its duties under this Act;

(f ) the licensee fails to prevent or abate the violation of the provisions of this Act
or the licence; or

(g) the licensee or any of its employees repeatedly and knowingly sells tickets or
awards or pays prizes to any person contrary to the provisions of this Act.

(2) The President shall, if satisfied that there exists any ground for revocation as
specified in subsection (1) of this section-

(a) notify the licensee in writing of the existence of such grounds; and

(b) request the licensee to furnish reasons, within 14 days of service of such notice
at the registered address of the licensee as to why the licence should not be revoked.

(3) The President may-

(a) if satisfied with any reason furnished by the licensee pursuant to subsection (2)
of this section, allow the licence to continue; or

(b) if not satisfied with the reasons furnished by the licensee, revoke the licence
with or without the advice of the Commission.

(4) Where a licence is revoked under this section, appropriate compensation may be
payable to the licensee subject to due valuation of all physical assets of the licensee relating to the business of a national lottery.

Miscellaneous Provisions relating to a Licensee

22. Certain restrictions on national lottery licence

No person holding a political office or in the public service of the Federation within
the meaning of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria shall have any financial interest in a national licensee or licence.

23. Appointment of agents by a licensee to manage lotteries, etc.

Subject to this Act, a licensee may, with the approval of the Commission, appoint,
contract or otherwise engage any person or body corporate as an operator or agent to
manage, promote, conduct or operate, on behalf of the licensee, all or any of the lotteries
to which the licence relates.

24. Application of proceeds of a national lottery

(1) A licensee shall establish an operational fund to be known as the "prize fund" into
which shall be paid a minimum return of 50 percent of the proceeds of a national lottery.

(2) The prize fund established by the licensee pursuant to subsection (1) of this section
shall be applied exclusively for the payment of prizes in respect of such lotteries
from which the proceeds were realised.

(3) A licensee shall pay to the Trust Fund established under section 35 of this Act
within a period of not more than 90 days after the determination of the result of each lottery,
an amount of 20% of the proceeds of the lottery for the first five years of the licence,
25% in the subsequent five years and thereafter 27.5%.

25. Financial statements and records of licensee

(1) A licensee shall submit to the President and the Commission, at such time and in
such manner as the Commission may, from time to time, prescribe financial statements,
returns and other records relating to the lotteries operated pursuant to the licence.

(2) A licensee shall keep proper accounts and records of the transactions and affairs
of the licensee sufficient to explain the financial operations and financial position of the
licensee.

(3) A licensee may apply to the President, through the Commission, for an extension
of time within which to submit the financial statement or return specified in subsection (1) of this section.

26. Annual reports by licensee

A licensee shall prepare and submit to the Commission not later than 30th June in
each year a report in such form as the President or the Commission may direct on the
activities of the licensee during the immediately preceding year, and shall include in the
report a copy of the financial statement for the year submitted pursuant to section 25 of
this Act and the audited accounts of the licensee for that year.

27. Auditing of accounts and financial statements of the licensee

The licensee shall cause his or its accounts and financial statements to be audited
within six months after the end of each year by external auditors in accordance with the
provisions of the Companies and Allied Matters Act.

[L.F.N. 2004 Cap. C20.]

28. Powers of the external auditor

Any external auditor appointed to audit the accounts of a licensee pursuant to section 27 of this Act-

(a) shall have the rights to access at all times the books of the licensee in respect
of the lotteries; and

(b) may require from an employee or contractor of the licensee any information,
assistance or explanation necessary for the performance of the duties of the
auditor in relation to the audit.

Sale of Lottery Tickets

29. Sale of lottery tickets

A ticket of any lottery under this Act shall be sold on behalf of a licensee through personal application, postage or electronic transmission-

(a) at the offices of the licensee;

(b) by sales agents appointed or contracted by the licensee;

(c) automatic vending machines authorised by the licensee; or

(d) by such other means or places as may be authorised or designated by the licensee from time to time.

30. Commercial lottery, etc., syndicating prohibited

(1) No person shall obtain or attempt to obtain any direct or indirect financial gain for
himself or for any other person by forming, conducting or assisting in forming or con-
ducting a syndicate for the purchase of a ticket or electronic entry.

(2) No person shall promote-

(a) the formation of any syndicate for the purchase of a ticket or electronic entry;
or

(b) any form of syndicate for the purchase of any ticket or making any electronic
entry; or

(c) any scheme capable of assisting any other person to form any syndicate for the
purposes of purchasing ticket or making electronic entry.

(3) Any person who contravenes the provisions of subsections (1) and (2) of this section commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction-

(a) in the case of an individual, to a fine of not less than N50,000 or imprisonment
for a term of not less than one year or to both such fine and imprisonment; or

(b) in the case of a body corporate, to a fine of not less than N250,000 and in addition,
each director, manager or officer of the body corporate shall be liable to a
fine of not less than N50,000 or imprisonment for a term of not less than one
year or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(4) It shall be a defence to a charge brought under this section if the person charged
proves that-

(a) the offence was committed by the body corporate without his consent or

knowledge; or

(b) he or she exercised due diligence to prevent the commission of the offence.

(5) This section does not apply to-

(a) the licensee or operator; or

(b) any sales agent of the licensee or operator with respect to any commission
payment received under an agreement with licensee or operator.

Unclaimed Prizes

31. Unclaimed prizes

(1) Subject to this Act and any other condition in the licence, the licensee shall under-
take all best endeavours to find and make payment to all prize winners.

(2) A licensee may deduct from the prize fund the legitimate expenses incurred in
finding and paying winners of prizes previously unclaimed.

(3) Upon the expiration of a period of not less than 180 days following any lottery
draw, the licensee shall retain any prizes remaining as part of the prize fund and such
monies as remains unclaimed shall be used to pay future prizes.

(4) A licensee may, at his own discretion, meet the legitimate claims of jackpot winners in
respect of any prizes previously unclaimed for a period longer than 180 days,
from the prize fund maintained by the licensee pursuant to section 24 of this Act.

(5) A licensee may at his own discretion apply any part of the unclaimed prizes for
supplementary draws for the promotion of social objectives of the national lottery.

General Provisions on National Lottery

32. Application of this Act to existing licence

The provisions of this Act shall apply to any licence to operate a national lottery existing
immediately before the commencement of this Act and such licence shall be deemed
to have been granted under this Act.

33. Agreement with another country on national lottery

(1) The President may enter into an agreement with the Government of any other
country or State with respect to-

(a) the operation of a licence granted under this Act in that other country or State;

(b) any contract, agreement or arrangement entered into by the licensee with any
person or body corporate in another country or State to promote and conduct
lotteries in that other country;

(c) the payment of or exemption from payment of all or part of the contributions
to the Trust Fund established under section 35 of this Act in connection with
proceeds from lotteries derived from or in that other country or State;

(d) the retention by that other country or State of all or part of the contributions
referred to in paragraph (c) of this subsection;

(e) the inclusion in the prize fund of the licensee maintained pursuant to section
24 (1) of this Act to any lottery of all or any part of the proceeds from a
lottery promoted in another country or State; and

(f ) any matter connected with or incidental to all matters covered under this
subsection.

(2) Any agreement entered into pursuant to this section may be varied or rescinded
by the parties thereto on such terms and conditions as may be agreed between them.

34. General offences and penalties

(1) Any person who-

(a) forges any lottery ticket or causes any ticket to be forged;

(b) knowingly disposes of, or attempts to sell or dispose of any forged or stolen
ticket;

(c) alters any number or figure or falsifies or otherwise disfigures any ticket with
the intent to defraud;

(d) with the intent to defraud, takes or converts to his own use or to use of any
other person, any proceeds from a lottery operated by the licensee;

(e) knowingly sells to any person under the age of eighteen years any ticket in a lottery operated by a licensee;

(f) fraudulently or unlawfully holds himself out as an agent of the licensee;

(g) as an incentive or inducement to enter into a contract, or as a condition or con-
sequence of entering into a contract, gives a guarantee or promise to a person
to the effect that the person will win a prize or share of a prize in a lottery;

(h) conducts or promotes a scheme under which a guarantee or promise is given to
a person participating in the scheme to the effect that the person will win a
prize or share out of a prize in a lottery; or

(i) contravenes any provisions of this Act where no specific penalty is provided,
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of not less than N20,000 or
imprisonment for a term of not less than one year or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(2) Where an offence under subsection (1) of this section is committed by a body
corporate, the body corporate shall be liable to a fine of not less than N100,000 and in
addition, each director, manager or officer of the body corporate shall be liable on conviction to a fine
of not less than N20,000 or imprisonment for a term of not less than one
year or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(3) Save as provided under this Act and notwithstanding the provision of any other
enactment to the contrary, the operation of any lottery on a national basis or on inter-State
basis is hereby declared unlawful.

(4) Pursuant to the above provision, no person shall establish or conduct a lottery at
national level or employ the use of a national platform or interstate basis to-

(a) conduct a lottery, either through personal application or any electronic

transmission;

(b) print a ticket in a lottery;

(c) sell, buy or offer for sale or give or accept a ticket in a lottery;

(d) publish or exhibit in a newspaper or broadcast, telecast or on a notice by electronic
means or otherwise any information relating to a lottery;

(e) sell or dispose of any property of any kind or allot any prize of money by
means of a game of chance or a game of mixed chance and skill; or

(f) keep a house or place for the purpose of conducting a lottery, whether the
house or place is used for any other purpose.

PART VI

Establishment of the National Lottery Trust Fund and its Board of Trustees

35. Establishment of the National Lottery Trust Fund

(I) There is established a fund to be known as the National Lottery Trust Fund (in
this Act referred to as "the Trust Fund") into which shall be credited a percentage of the
net proceeds of a national lottery as prescribed under section 24 of this Act.

(2) The Trust Fund-

(a) shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal;

(b) may sue or be sued in its corporate name; and

(c) shall have the power to acquire, hold, mortgage, purchase or deal howsoever
with property, whether movable or immovable real or personal.

36. Establishment and composition of the Board of Trustees for the Trust Fund

(1) There is established for the Trust Fund, a Board of Trustees to be known as the
National Lottery Trust Fund Board of Trustees (in this Act referred to as "the Board of
Trustees") which shall have overall control of the Trust Fund.

(2) The Board of Trustees shall consist of-

(a) a part-time chairman;

(b) the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Finance;

(c) the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Sports and Social Development;

(d) the Chairman and two members of the Board of Directors of the licensee;

(e) two major shareholders of the licensee; and

(f ) six persons, one from each geopolitical zone, to represent public interest.

(3) The Chairman and members of the Board of Trustees shall-

(a) be appointed by the President; and

(b) serve on a part-time basis.

(4) The supplementary provisions set out in the Second Schedule to this Act shall
have effect with respect to the proceedings of the Board of Trustees and the other matters
mentioned therein.

[Second Schedule.]

37. Tenure of office

The Chairman and other members of the Board of Trustees, other than ex officio
members, shall each hold office-

(a) for a term of four years in the first instance and may be re-appointed for a further term of four years; and

(b) on such terms and conditions as may be specified in his letter of appointment.

38. Cessation of membership

(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 37 of this Act, a member of the Board
of Trustees shall cease to hold office as a member of the Board of Trustees if-

(a) he resigns his appointment as a member of the Board of Trustees by notice, under his hand, addressed to the President;

(b) he becomes of unsound mind;

(c) he becomes bankrupt or makes a compromise with his creditors;

(d) he is convicted of a felony or of any offence involving dishonesty or corruption;

(e) he becomes incapable of carrying on the functions of his office either arising
from an infirmity of mind or body; or

(f) the President is satisfied that it is not in the interest of the Commission or in
the interest of the public for the person to continue in office and the President
removes him from office.

(2) Where a vacancy occurs in the membership of the Board of Trustees, it shall be
filled by the appointment of a successor to hold office for the remainder of the term of
office of his predecessor, so however that the successor shall represent the same interest
as his predecessor.

39. Emoluments, etc., of members

The Chairman and members of the Board of Trustees shall be paid such emoluments,
allowances and benefits as the President may, from time to time, approve.

40. Application of the Trust Fund

The proceeds of the Trust Fund established under section 35 of this Act shall be ap-
plied, from time to time-

(a) to fund projects approved by the President, on the recommendation of the
Board of Trustees, to be in the interest of the Nigerian community and such
projects shall include but not limited to projects for the advancement, upliftment and promotion
of sports development, education, social services, public
welfare and relief, and management of natural disasters in Nigeria;

(b) to the cost of administration of the Trust Fund;

(c) subject to section 39 of this Act, for the payment of emoluments, allowances
and benefits of members of the Board of Trustees and for reimbursing
members of the Board of Trustees or any committee set up by the Board of
Trustees for such other expenses as may be expressly authorised by the Board
of Trustees;

(d) for the payment of salaries, fees or other remuneration or allowances, pensions
and other benefits payable to the staff and other employees of the Trust Fund,
so however that no payment of any kind under this clause (except such as may
be expressly authorised by the Board) shall be made to any person who is in
receipt of emoluments from the Federal Government or of a State; and

(e) for and in connection with all or any of its functions made under this Act.

PART VII

Powers of the Board of Trustees and Functions of the Trust Fund

41. Powers of the Board of Trustees

The Board of Trustees shall have power to-

(a) acquire office for the use of the Trust Fund in such locations as it may deem
necessary for the proper performance of its functions under this Act;

(b) fix the terms and condition of service including remuneration of the employees
of the Trust Fund; and

(c) do such other things which in the opinion of the Board of Trustees are necessary
to ensure the efficient performance of the Trust Fund.

42. Functions of the Trust Fund

The Trust Fund shall-

(a) receive and credit into its account, all monies payable into the Trust Fund under this Act;

(b) make all disbursement required to be made out of the Trust Fund under this Act;

(c) in collaboration with relevant agencies and bodies implement or facilitate the
implementation of any project approved by the President on the recommenda-
tion of the Board of Trustees;

(d) carry out other activities as are necessary or expedient to ensure the effective
performance of its functions under this Act.

PART VIII

Staff of the Trust Fund

43. Secretary of the Trust Fund

(1) There shall be for the Trust Fund, a Secretary who shall-

(a) be appointed by the President;

(b) be the chief executive and accounting officer of the Trust Fund; and

(c) be responsible for the execution of the policy and day to day administration of
the Trust Fund.

(2) The Secretary shall hold office-

(a) for a term of four years in the first instance and may be re-appointed for a further term of four years and no more; and

(b) on such terms and conditions as may be specified in his letter of appointment.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2) of this section, the Secretary may-

(a) resign his appointment by a notice in writing under his hand, addressed to the
President through the Board of Trustees; or

(b) be removed by the President for inability to discharge the functions of his office
(whether arising from infirmity of mind or body or any other cause) or for misconduct or corruption.

44. Other staff of the Trust Fund

The Trust Fund may, subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees, appoint such
other staff as it may deem necessary and expedient, from time to time-

(a) for the proper and efficient performance of the functions of the Trust Fund;
and

(b) on such terms and conditions as may be determined, from time to time, by the Board.

45. Act 2004 No.2

Service in the Trust Fund shall be subject to the provisions of the Pension Reform
Act, and accordingly, officers and employees of the Commission shall be entitled to
pensions and other retirement benefits as are prescribed under the Pension Reform Act.

46. Annual estimates and accounts

(1) The Trust Fund shall, not later than 30th September in each year, submit to the
President, through the Board of Trustees, an estimate of its expenditure and income
(including payments to the Trust Fund) for the next succeeding year.

(2) The Board of Trustees shall cause to be kept proper accounts of the Trust Fund in
respect of each year and proper records in relation to those accounts and shall cause its
accounts to be audited within three months after the end of each year by auditors appointed
by the Board of Trustees from the list and in accordance with the guidelines supplied by the
Auditor-General for the Federation.

47. Annual reports

The Trust Fund shall prepare and submit to the President, through the Board of Trustees
not later than 31st March in each year a report in such form as the President may direct on
the activities of the Trust Fund during the immediately preceding year, and shall include
in the report a copy of the audited accounts of the Trust Fund for that year and of the
auditor's report thereon.

48. Power to accept gifts

(1) The Trust Fund may accept gift of land, money or other property on such terms
and conditions, if any, as may be specified by the person or organisation making the gift.

(2) The Trust Fund shall not accept any gift if the conditions attached by the person
or organisation making the gift are inconsistent with the functions of the Trust Fund under
this Act.

49. Power to borrow

The Trust Fund may, with the approval of the President, on the recommendation of
the Board of Trustees, borrow by way of loan, overdraft or otherwise from any source
such sums as it may require for the performance of its functions and meeting its obligations under this Act.

PART IX

Legal Proceedings

50. Limitation of suits against the Commission, etc.

(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the provisions of the Public Officers Protection Act shall apply in
relation to any suit instituted against any member or officer or employee of the Commission or the Trust Fund.

[L.F.N. 2004 Cap. P41.]

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law or enactment, no suit
against a member of the Board or Board of Trustees, the Director-General of the Com-
mission or the Secretary of the Trust Fund or any other officer or employee of the Com-
mission or Trust Fund for any act done in pursuance or execution of this Act or any other
law or enactment, or of any public duties or authority or in respect of any alleged neglect
or default in the execution of this Act or any other law or enactment, duties or authority,
shall lie or be instituted in any court unless it is commenced-

(a) within three months next after the act, neglect or default complained of; or

(b) in the case of a continuation of damage or injury, within six months next after
the ceasing thereof.

(3) No suit shall be commenced against a member of the Board, the Board of Trustees,
the Director-General of the Commission, the Secretary of the Trust Fund or any other officer or
employee of the Commission or the Trust Fund before the expiration of a period of
one month after written notice of the intention to commence the suit shall have been
served on the Commission or the Trust Fund by the intending plaintiff or his agent.

(4) The notice referred to in subsection (3) of this section shall clearly and explicitly state-

(a) the cause of action;

(b) the particulars of the claim;

(c) the name and place of abode of the intending plaintiff; and

(d) the relief which he claims.

51. Service of documents

A notice, summons or other document required or authorised to be served on the
Commission or the Trust Fund under the provisions of this Act or any other law or enactment may
be served by delivering it to the Director-General of the Commission or the
Secretary of the Trust Fund or by sending it by registered post addressed to the Director-
General of the Commission at the principal office of the Commission.

52. Restriction on execution against property of the Commission of the Trust Fund

(1) In any action or suit against the Commission or the Trust Fund, no execution or
attachment of process in the nature thereof shall be issued against the Commission or the
Trust Fund unless not less than three months' notice of the intention to execute or attach
has been given to the Commission or the Trust Fund.

(2) Any sum of money which by the judgment of any court has been awarded against
the Commission or the Trust Fund shall, subject to any direction given by the Court,
where no notice of appeal against the judgment has been given, be paid from the fund of
the Commission or the Trust Fund.

53. Indemnity of officers

A member of the Board or Board of Trustees, the Director-General or any officer or
employee of the Trust Fund shall be indemnified out of the assets of the Commission or
the Trust Fund against any liability incurred by him in defending any proceeding,
whether civil or criminal, if the proceeding is brought against him in his capacity as a
member, Director-General, Secretary or officer or other employee of the Commission or
the Trust Fund, as the case may be.

PART X

Miscellaneous Provisions

54. Directives by the President, etc.

The President may give to the Commission or the Trust Fund, the Director-General of
the Commission or the Secretary of the Trust Fund such directives of a general nature or
relating generally to matters of policy with regard to the exercise of its or his functions
under this Act as he may consider necessary and the Commission or the Trust Fund, the
Director-General of the Commission or the Secretary of the Trust Fund shall comply with
the directives or cause them to be complied with.

55. Powers to make regulations

(1) The Board may, with the approval of the President, make such regulations as in
its opinion are necessary or expedient for giving full effect to the provisions of this Act
and for the due administration of its provisions relating to the Commission.

(2) The Board of Trustees of the Trust Fund may, with the approval of the President
make such regulations as in its opinion are necessary or expedient for giving full effect to
the provisions of this Act and for the due administration of its provisions relating to the
Trust Fund.

(3) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1) of this section, the Board or
the Board of Trustees may issue guidelines to give full effect to the respective relevant
provisions of this Act.

56. Secrecy

(1) A member of the Board or the Board of Trustees, the Director-General or the
Secretary or any other officer or employee of the Commission or the Trust Fund shall-

(a) not, for his personal gain, make use of any information which has come to his
knowledge in the exercise of his powers or is obtained by him in the ordinary
course of his duty as a member of the Board or as the Director-General, Secretary,
officer or employee of the Commission or the Trust Fund;

(b) treat as confidential any information which has come to his knowledge in the
exercise of his powers or is obtained by him in the performance of his duties
under this Act;

(c) not disclose any information referred to under paragraph (b) of this subsection,
except where required to do so by a court or in such other circumstances as
may be prescribed by the Board, from time to time.

(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1) of this section
commits an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine of not less than N50,000 or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

57. Interpretation

In this Act-

"Board" means the Governing Board of the Commission established under section 2
of this Act;

"Board of Trustees" means the National Lottery Trust Fund Board of Trustees
established under section 36 of this Act;

"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Governing Board of the Commission or the
Chairman of the Board of Trustees appointed under sections 2 and 36 of this Act
respectively;

"Commission" means the National Lottery Regulatory Commission established under
section 1 of this Act;

"Director-General" means the Director-General of the Commission appointed under
section 8 of this Act;

"member" means a member of the Governing Board of the Commission or a member
of the Board of Trustees, as the case may be, and includes the Chairman of the
Commission or the Board of Trustees;

"licence" means a licence to operate a national lottery granted under this Act;

"licensee" means the person to whom a licence to carry on the business of a national
lottery has been issued pursuant to this Act;

"lottery" or "lotteries" includes any game, scheme, arrangement, system, plan, promotional
competition or device for the distribution of prizes by lot or chance, or as a result of the exercise
of skill and chance or based on the outcome of sporting events, or any
other game, scheme, arrangement, system, plan, competition or device, which the President may by
notice in the Gazette declare to be lottery and which shall be operated according to a licence;

"net proceeds" means that proportion of the proceeds that remains after the payment
of prizes in the lottery, a part of which is payable to the Trust Fund or the Board of Trus-
tees thereof;

"operator" means licensee or any other person or company engaged by the licensee
to operate a lottery;

"participant" in relation to a lottery means a person who is in possession of a valid
ticket in that lottery;

"President" means the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria;

"prize" means a prize due to a participant who holds a winning ticket in a lottery
conducted by the licensee;

"prize fund" means the fund established by a licensee pursuant to section 24 of this
Act;

"proceeds" means the gross monetary amount spent by participants on the purchase
of tickets in respect of each lottery conducted under a licence;

"relevant financial interest" in relation to a business conducted under a licence
issued pursuant to this Act by a licensee includes any-

(a) share in the capital of the business;

(b) entitlement to receive any income derived from the business; or

(c) entitlement to receive any payment as a result of money advanced;

"relevant period" means the financial year of the licensee as required and governed
by the Companies and Allied Matters Act;

[L.F.N. 2004 Cap. C20.]

"Secretary" means the Secretary of the Trust Fund appointed under section 43 of this
Act;

"ticket" means any receipt, symbol, sign, token, warrant, card, printed paper, document
or any other means or device including an electronic record, which entitles a participant to take part in a lottery;

"Trust Fund" means the National Lottery Trust Fund established under section 35 of
this Act;

"unclaimed prizes" means prizes payable in respect of winning tickets in a lottery
which have not been claimed by the ticket owner within the claim period specified in the
lottery rules.

58. Short title

This Act may be cited as the National Lottery Act, 2005.