8. Power to conduct seminars, etc.

The Board shall organise and conduct seminars, workshops, conferences, symposia
and other research and training activities as will enable it to acquire and disseminate
adequate information on the manpower aspect of the population, especially, the working age
population, labour force, employment, unemployment, under-employment, brain-drain,
labour mobility and labour productivity across occupational and industrial groups as well
as State boundaries in Nigeria.

(1) There shall be appointed for the Board, by the President on the recommendation
of the Minister, an Executive Secretary who shall have appropriate qualifications.

(2) The Executive Secretary shall be the chief executive of the Board and shall be
responsible for the execution of the policy of the Board and the day-to-day administration
of the affairs of the Board.

(3) The Executive Secretary shall hold office in the first instance for a period of five
years and shall be eligible for re-appointment for such further terms as the Minister may
determine.

(4) Subject to this section, the Executive Secretary shall hold office on such terms as
to emolument and otherwise as may be specified in his letter of appointment.

10. Staff of the Board

(1) Subject to this Act, the Board may appoint such other persons as members of its
staff as it considers necessary.

(2) The remuneration and tenure of office of the other staff of the Board shall be determined
by the Board after consultation with the Federal Civil Service Commission.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (I) of this section employees of the
Board may be appointed by way of transfer or secondment from any of the public services
in the Federation.

11. Application of Pensions Act

(1) It is hereby declared that service in the Board shall be pensionable under the Pensions Act,
and accordingly employees of the Board shall, in respect of their services in the
Board, be entitled to pensions, gratuities and other retirement benefits as are prescribed
thereunder.

[Cap. P4.]

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (I) of this section, nothing in this
Act shall prevent the appointment of a person to any office on terms which preclude the
grant of a pension and gratuity in respect of that office.

(3) For the purpose of the application of the provisions of the Pensions Act, any
power exercisable thereunder by a Minister or other authority of the Government of the
Federation (not being the power to make regulations under section 23 thereof) is hereby
vested in and shall be exercisable by the Board and not by any other person or authority.

(4) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, the Pensions Act shall in its application
by virtue of subsection (3) of this section to any office, have effect as if the office were in
the civil service of the Federation within the meaning of the Constitution of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria 1999.

[Cap. C23.]

12. Fund of the Board

(1) The Board shall establish and maintain a fund from which shall be defrayed all
expenditure incurred by the Board.

(2) There shall be paid and credited to the fund established pursuant to subsection (I)
of this section-

(a) such moneys as may, from time to time, be lent or granted to the Board by the
Government of the Federation or of a State;

(b) all moneys raised for the purposes of the Board by way of gift, loan grant-in-aid, testamentary disposition or otherwise;

(c) all subscriptions, fees or charges for services rendered by the Board; and

(d) all other assets that may, from time to lime, accrue to the Board.

(3) The fund shall be managed in accordance with rules made by the Minister and
without prejudice to the generality of the power to make rules under this subsection, the
rules shall in particular contain provisions-

(a) specifying the manner in which the assets or the fund are to be held and
regulating the making of payments into and out of the fund;

(b) requiring the keeping of proper accounts and records for the purposes of the
fund in such form as may be specified in the rules.

13. E
xpenditure of the Board

The Board may, from time to time, apply the proceeds of the fund established pursuant to section 12 of this Act to-

(a) the cost of administration of the Board;

(b) the payment of the salaries, fees and other remuneration, allowances, pensions
and gratuities payable to members or employees of the Board, so however that
no payment of any kind under this paragraph shall be made to any person who
is in receipt of emoluments from the Government of the Federation or of a State.

Power to accept gifts

(I) The Board may accept gifts of land, money or other property upon such terms and
conditions, if any, as may be specified by the person making the gift.

(2) The Board shall not accept any gift if the conditions attached by the person making the gift
are inconsistent with the functions of the Board.

Power to borrow

The Board may, with the consent of the Minister, borrow, on such terms and conditions as
the Board may determine, such sums of money as the Board may require in the
exercise of the functions conferred on it under this Act.

A ward of contracts

The Minister shall, subject to such limitations as may be imposed on him by the President, stipulate
conditions for the award of contracts by the Board.

17. Office and premises

(I) For the purpose of providing offices and premises necessary for the performance
of its functions, the Board may-

(a) purchase or take on lease any landed property; and

(b) build, equip and maintain offices and premises.

(2) The Board may sell or lease any land, offices or premises held by it and no longer
required for the performance of its functions.

18. Annual estimates and accounts

The Board shall submit to the Minister not later than 31 October in each year an
estimate of its expenditure and income during the next succeeding financial year.

19. Annual reports

The Board shall prepare and submit to the President through the Minister, not later
than 30 June in each year, a report in such form as he may direct on the activities of the
Board during the immediately preceding year, and shall include in such report a copy of
the audited accounts of the Board for that year and the Auditor-General's report thereon.

20. Power to obtain information

(1) For the purpose of carrying out the functions conferred on the Board under this
Act, the Executive Secretary or any other officer of the Board authorised in that behalf-

(a) shall have a right of access at all reasonable times to all training and
employment records of any establishment or institution;

(b) may by notice in writing served on any person in charge of any such establishment
or institution require that person to furnish information on such matters as may be specified in that notice.

(2) It shall be the duty of any person required to furnish any information pursuant to
subsection (I) of this section, to comply with the notice within a reasonable period of
time.

21. Regulations

The Minister may make regulations generally for the purpose of giving effect to the
provisions of this Act.

22. Power of Minister to give directives to the Board

Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Minister may give to the Board directives of
a general character or relating generally to matters of policy with regards to the exercise
by the Board of its functions and it shall be the duty of the Board to comply with such
directives.

23. Interpretation

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"chairman" means the chairman of the Board;

"Executive Secretary" means the person appointed as the Executive Secretary to the
Board under section 9 of this Act;

"member" means a member of the Board and includes the chairman; and

"Minister" means Minister charged with responsibility for matters relating to budget
and planning.

24. Short title

This Act may be cited as the National Manpower Board Act.