4. Tenure of office of the chairman and members of the Council

(1) The chairman and members of the Council other than ex officio members, shall
each hold office for a term of four years, subject to renewal by the President for only one
further term of four years and no more.

(2) Without prejudice to subsection (I) of this section the Minister may appoint from
among the members any person to act as the chairman during the absence or temporary
incapacitation by illness or otherwise of the chairman and the person so appointed shall,
while the appointment subsists, have the same powers as exercised by the chairman.

5. Secretariat and other officers of the Council

(1) There shall be appointed by the Minister, an executive secretary who shall be the
chief executive of the Council and shall be responsible to the Council and the chairman
for the day-to-day administration of the Council.

(2) There may be appointed from time to time by the Council, such other staff as may
be required for the purpose of the efficient performance of the functions of the Council
and the staff appointed under this section shall be paid by the Council such remuneration
and allowances as are payable to persons of equivalent grades in the public service of the
Federation.

(3) The secretariat of the Council shall be located in the Federal Capital Territory,
Abuja.

6. Fund of the Council

(1) The Council shall establish and maintain a fund which shall be applied towards
the promotion of the objectives for which the Council is established.

(2) There shall be paid and credited to the fund established pursuant to subsection (1) of this section-

(a) ten per cent surcharge on sugar imports;

(b) fees charged for services rendered by the Council;

(c) contributions from the organised private sector; and

(d) all sums accruing to the Council by way of gifts, testamentary disposition and
endowments or contributions from philanthropic organisations or persons.

7. Power to accept gifts

(1) The Council may, with the approval of the Minister, accept gifts of land, money
or other property upon such terms and conditions if any, as may be specified by the
person or organisation making the gift.

(2) The Council shall not accept any gift if the conditions attached by the person or
organisation making the gift to the acceptance thereof are inconsistent with the functions
of the Council.

8. Power to borrow

(l) The Council may, with the consent of the Minister or in accordance with any general
guidelines as may be approved by the President, borrow by way of loan or overdraft
from any source any money required by the Council for meeting its obligations and
discharging its functions under this Act so however that where the sum or the aggregate of
the sum involved at anyone time does not exceed one third of the Council's income no
such consent or authority shall be required.

(2) The Council may, subject to the provisions of this Act and the conditions of any
trust created in respect of any property, invest all or any of its funds with the consent of
the Minister or in accordance with any general guidelines approved by the President.

(3) The Council may invest any surplus of the Council in such securities as may be
approved by the President.

9. Annual estimate and accounts

(I) The Council shall cause to be prepared not later than 30 October in each year, an
estimate of the expenditure and income of the Council during the next succeeding year
and when prepared they shall be submitted to the Minister.

(2) The Council shall causes to be kept proper accounts of the Council and proper records
in relation thereto and when certified by the Council such accounts shall be audited
as provided in subsection (3) of this section.

(3) The accounts of the Council shall be audited not later than six months after the
end of the year to which the accounts relate by auditors appointed by the Council from
the list and in accordance with the guidelines supplied by the Auditor-General for the
Federation.

10. Annual report

The Council shall, not later than 30 June in each year, submit to the Minister a report
on the activities of the Council and its administration during the immediately preceding
year and shall include in such report a copy of the audited accounts of the Council for
that year and the auditor's report thereon.

11. Staff regulations

(I) The Council may, subject to the provisions of this Act, make staff regulations relating
generally to the conditions of service of the staff of the Council and without prejudice to
the generality of the foregoing, such regulations may provide for-

(a) the appointment, promotion, termination, dismissal and disciplinary control of
the staff of the Council; and

(b) appeals by such staff against dismissal or other disciplinary measures,
and until such regulations are made, any instrument relating to the condition of service of
the office in the civil service of the Federation shall be applicable with such modifications as
may be necessary to the staff of the Council.

(2) Staff regulations made under subsection (1) of this section shall not have effect
until approved by the Minister, and when so approved the same shall not be published in
the Federal Gazette but the Council shall cause them to be brought to the notice of all
affected persons in such manner as it may, from time to time, determine.

12. Procedure in respect of suit, against the Council

No suit shall be commenced against the Council before the expiration of a period of
one month after written notice of intention to commence the suit shall have been served
on the Council by the intending plaintiff or his agent and the notice shall explicitly
state-

(a) the cause of action;

(b) the particulars of the claim;

(c) the name and place of abode of the intending plaintiff; and

(d) the relief which he claims.

13. Service of documents

The notice referred to in section 12 of this Act and any summons, notice or other
document required or authorised to be served upon the Council under the provisions of
this Act or any other enactment or law may be served by delivering the same to the
chairman or the executive secretary of the Council, or by sending it by registered post
addressed to the executive secretary at the principal office of the Council.

14. Restriction on execution against the property of the Council

In any action or suit against the Council, no execution or attachment or process in the
nature thereof shall be issued against the Council, but any sum of money which may, by
the judgment of the court, be awarded against the Council shall, subject to any directions
given by the Council, be paid from the general reserved fund of the Council.

15. Regulations

The Minister may make regulations generally for the purpose of giving effect to the
provisions of this Act.

16. Power of the Minister to give directives

Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Minister may give the Council directives of a
general nature or relating generally to matters of policy with regards to the exercise by
the Council of its functions; and it shall be the duty of the Council to comply with such
directives.

17. Interpretation

In [his Act, unless [he comext otherwise requires

"Council" means the National Sugar Development Council established by section of this Act;

"chairman" means the chairman of the Council;

"member" means a member of the Council and includes the chairman;

"Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibility for industry.

18. Short title

This Act may be cited as the National Sugar Development Council Act.