1. Establishment and objectives of the National Youth Service Corps
(I) There is hereby established a scheme to be known as the National Youth Service
Corps (in this Act referred to as "the service corps").
(2) The service corps shall with a view to-
(a) the proper encouragement and development of common ties among the Ni-
gerian youths;
(b) the promotion of national unity; and
(c) the development of the Nigerian youth and Nigeria into a great and dynamic
economy,
be charged with the functions as pertain to the objectives of the service corps set out in
subsection (3) of this section.
(3) The objectives of the service corps shall be to-
(a) inculcate discipline in Nigerian youths by instilling in them a tradition of in-
dustry at work, and, of patriotic and loyal service to Nigeria in any situation
they may find themselves;
(b) raise the moral tone of the Nigerian youths by giving them the opportunity to
learn about higher ideals of national achievement, social and cultural im-
provement;
(c) develop in the Nigerian youths the attitudes of mind, acquired through shared
experience and suitable training, which will make them more amenable to mo-
bilisation in the national interest;
(d) enable Nigerian youths acquire the spirit of self reliance by encouraging them
to develop skills for self employment;
(e) contribute to the accelerated growth of the national economy;
(j) develop common ties among the Nigerian youths and promote national unity
and integration;
(g) remove prejudices, eliminate ignorance and confirm at first hand the many
similarities among Nigerians of all ethnic groups; and
(h) develop a sense of corporate existence and common destiny of the people of
Nigeria.
(4) In order to achieve the objectives in subsection (3) of this section, the service
corps shall ensure-
(a) the equitable distribution of members of the service corps and the effective
utilisation of their skills in areas of national needs;
(b) that as far as possible, Nigerian youths are assigned to jobs in States other than
their States of origin;
(c) that such group of Nigerian youths assigned to work together is representative
of Nigeria as far as possible;
(d) that the Nigerian youths are exposed to the modes of living of the people in
different parts of Nigeria;

CAP. N84
(e) that the Nigerian youths are encouraged to eschew religious intolerance by
accommodating religious differences;
if) that members of the service corps are encouraged to seek at the end of their
one year national service, career employment all over Nigeria, thus, promoting
the free movement of labour;
(g) that employers are induced partly through their experience with members of
the service corps to employ more readily and on a permanent basis, qualified
Nigerians, irrespective of their States of origin.
2. Calling-up of members of service corps
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, every Nigerian shall-
(a) if, at the end of the academic year 1972-73 or, as the case may be, at the end
of any subsequent academic year, he shall have graduated at any university in
Nigeria; or
(b) if, at the end of the academic year 1974-75 or, as the case may be, at the end
of any subsequent year, he shall have graduated at any university outside Nige-
ria; or
(c) if, at the end of the academic year 1975-76 or, as the case may be, at the end
of any subsequent year, he shall have obtained the Higher National Diploma or
such other professional qualification as may be prescribed; or
(d) if, at the end of the academic year 1975-76 or, as the case may be, at the end
of any subsequent academic year up to the end of the 1983-84 academic year,
he shall have obtained the National Certificate of Education,
be under an obligation, unless exempted under subsection (2) of this section or section 17
of this Act, to make himself available for service for a continuous period of one year
from the date specified in the call-up instrument served upon him.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (l) of this section, with effect from
1 August 1985, a person shall not be called upon to serve in the service corps if, at the
date of his graduation or obtaining his diploma or other professional qualification-
(a) he is over the age of thirty; or
(b) he has served in the armed forces of the Federation or the Nigeria Police Force
for a period of more than nine months; or
he is member of staff of any of the following, that is-
(i) the Nigerian Security Organisation; or
(ii) the State Security Service; or
(iii) the National Intelligence Agency; or
(iv) the Defence Intelligence Agency; or
he has been conferred with any National Honour.
(3) A person liable to be called upon to serve in the service corps shall serve for a
continuous period of one year as from the date specified in the call-up instrument served
upon him or, as the case may be, if a general or special notice to that effect is given in the
prescribed manner; and when so called upon, such person shall make himself available
N84-3 [Issue I]

CAP. N84
for service and shall present himself at such place and time and to such person or author-
ity as may he specified in the instrument or notice.
(4) The President may, by order published in the Gazette, extend the application of
the provisions of subsection (I) of this section to other categories of Nigerians who shall
have obtained such diplomas, certificates or other qualifications as may be prescribed in
the Order from universities, colleges and other institutions of higher learning within or
outside Nigeria, and the Order may specify different dates for call-up in relation to differ-
ent categories of those affected or to be affected by the Order.
3. Establishment and constitution of the National Directorate
(I) There shall be established, a National Directorate, (in this Act referred to as "the
Directorate") which shall he the governing body of the service corps.
(2) The Directorate shall have a governing board which shall comprise the following
ten members, to be appointed by the President, that is-
(a) a chairman;
(b) one representative of the committee of Vice-Chancellors;
(c) one representative of the committee of Rectors of Polytechnics;
(d) one representative of the chief of army staff;
(e) one representative of the Inspector-General of Police;
(j) one representative of the Nigerian Employers Consultative Association;
(g) three other persons, one of whom shall be a woman; and
(h) the Director-General.
(3) A member of the Directorate, other than an ex officio member, shall hold office
for a term of three years from the date of his appointment and shall be eligible for re-
appointment for one further term only.
4. Principal functions of the Directorate
(I) The Directorate shall-
(a) draw up detailed programmes of training and schedules which shall be de-
signed for achieving the objects of the service corps;
(b) ensure that such programmes and schedules are strictly adhered to;
(c) maintain regular contact with all universities, polytechnics and colleges in Ni-
geria and abroad where applicable;
(d) assign members of the service corps to the programmed work in the States as
provided by the Directorate;
(e) co-ordinate the work of the State governing boards in furtherance of the ob-
jects of this Act;
(j) assess and review, from time to time, the progress of the service corps;
(g) make and submit all statutory and other reports as may be required of it to the
Presidency.

CAP. N84
(2) The Directorate may delegate any of its foregoing functions to a State governing
board:
Provided that such delegation shall not prevent the Directorate from exercising the
functions so delegated.
(3) Service in the Directorate is hereby declared as approved service within the
meaning of the Pensions Act.
[Cap. P4.]
(4) The Directorate shall have power to appoint, (including power to appoint on pro-
motion and transfer and on confirmation of appointments) advance, terminate and disci-
pline employees holding or acting in any office in the Directorate.
S. Director-General of the service corps
(I) There shall be for the service corps a Director-General who shall be appointed by
the President.
(2) The Director-General shall be the chief executive and shall be charged with the
general responsibility for matters affecting the day-to-day running of the service corps.
(3) The Director-General shall be assisted by directors at the National Directorate
headquarters and State co-ordinators at the State headquarters.
6. Establishment and functions of the State Governing Boards
(l) There is hereby established for each State, a National Youth Service Corps govern-
ing board with its office in the office of the Governor of the State (in this Act referred to
as "the State governing board").
(2) The State governing board shall be responsible for-
(a) arranging and providing accommodation, boarding, transportation, and pro-
viding other facilities which are essential for the welfare of members of the
service corps and for the success of the scheme in the State;
(b) assembling reports on members of the service corps and transmitting them to
the Directorate;
(c) arranging the provision of facilities for orientation courses and winding-up
exercises;
(d) compiling information on such opportunities as there may be for employment
in the State;
(e) deploying members of the service corps within the State.
(3) The State governing board may delegate any of its functions specified in subsec-
tion (2) of this section to the National Youth Service Corps Local Government Commit-
tee established under section 8 of this Act:
Provided that such delegation shall not prevent the State governing board from ex-
ercising the functions so delegated.
N84-5 [Issue I]

CAP. N84
7. Membership of the State Governing Board
(I) The State Governing Board in each State shall consist of the following members,
that is-
(a) a chairman who shall be appointed by the State Governor;
(b) a member of the armed forces of the Federation;
(c) a member of the Nigeria Police Force;
(d) five other persons who shall be appointed from among persons concerned with
the following sectors of the Nigerian economy at least one of whom shall rep-
resent-
(i) commerce and industry;
(ii) agriculture and natural resources;
(iii) local government;
(iv) education; and
(e) the State co-ordinator of the service corps.
(2) All members of the State governing board, with the exception of the State co-
ordinator, shall be appointed by the State Governor.
(3) The Governor of a State and the chairman of the State governing board a mini-
mum annual subvention of N500,OOO to enable it cater adequately for the welfare needs
of corps members deployed to the State and such minimum subvention shall be provided
before the commencement of the service year for which it is intended.
(4) Every State Government shall be required to provide such other facilities and
contribute to the implementation and achievement of the programmes and projects of the
service corps in the State including but not limited to land for agriculture, orientation
camps and transportation facilities.
8. Establishment and functions of the National Youth Service Corps Local Govern-
ment Committee and the State zonal offices, etc.
(I) There is hereby established in each local government area of a state, a National
Youth Service Corps Local Government Committee (in this Act referred to as "the
Committee") with its office in the office of the chairman of the local government.
(2) The members of the Committee shall comprise-
(a) the chairman of the local government as the chairman;
(b) a traditional ruler;
(c) a representative of the Nigeria Police Force;
(d) a representative each of the following Ministries, that is-
(i) education;
(ii) health;
(iii) social welfare and community development;
(e) a representative of the private sector; and
(j) the National Youth Service Corps zonal inspector.

CAP. N84
(3) The Committee established by subsection (1) of this section shall have responsi-
bility to-
(a) provide for the welfare needs of corps members deployed to the local govern-
ment area;
(b) arrange for the collection of corps members at the end of the orientation course
and return them for purposes of the winding-up exercise;
(c) assist in the selection of the National Youth Service Corps Honours Award
winners at the local government level;
(d) ensure the security of corps members deployed to the local government area;
(e) guide and ensure the effective cultural integration of corps members deployed
to the local government area; and
if> develop and execute integrated programmes for the development and trans-
formation of the local government area through various community develop-
ment projects.
(4) A local government shall be required to-
(a) make financial provisions in its annual budget for disbursement to the Com-
mittee in its area of jurisdiction for purposes of the effective discharge of its
functions as specified in this section; and
(b) through the Committee, provide the following, that is-
(i) welfare facilities including transport for the inspection of corps mem-
bers;
(ii) adequate accommodation; and
(iii) material resources for community development services.
(5) Notwithstanding the establishment of the Committee there is hereby established
the State zonal offices (in this Act referred to as "zonal office") which shall-
(a) comprise a number of local government Areas as may be determined from
time to time;
(b) be headed by a member of staff of the Directorate to be known as the zonal
inspector; and
(c) co-ordinate the activities of the service corps in the zone.
9. Placing of members of the service corps
(l) The Directorate shall determine the place and time each person qualified to be
registered under the provisions of this Act shall be deployed.
(2) The Directorate shall register each member of the service corps and shall deploy
him for national service in the following undertakings and projects, that is, in-
(a) hospitals;
(b) road construction;
(c) farming;
(d) water schemes;
N84-7 [Issue I]

CAP. N84
(e) surveying and mapping;
(j) social and economic services;
(g) teaching;
(h) food storage and eradication of pests;
(i) rehabilitation of destitutes and the disabled;
(j) development of sports;
(k) all government departments and statutory corporations suitable for new gradu-
ates;
(I) development projects of local councils;
(m) the private sector of the Nigerian economy; and
(n) such other undertakings and projects as the President may, by order, deter-
mine.
(3) For the purposes of this section, priority shall be given to service in any of the
undertakings or projects mentioned in subsection (2) of this section situated within such
appropriate urban or rural areas of the Federation as may be selected by the Directorate.
(4) Before placing any member of the service corps in any of the undertakings or
projects aforementioned, the Directorate shall take into consideration the qualifications of
each member, vacancies then existing, and priorities of national needs.
(5) In the discharge of its functions under this section, the Directorate shall not be
compelled in any manner whatsoever to deploy a member of the service corps to any
particular undertaking or project.
(6) An employer of corps members, whether in the private or public sector, pursuant
to the provisions of this section, shall be required to expose the corps members to gainful
working experience.
10. Evaluation and report on members of the service corps
(I) The Directorate shall cause quarterly returns and reports on each member of the
service corps to be compiled by such officers including training officers as it may desig-
nate.
(2) The quarterly reports of each member of the service corps shall show-
(a) the extent of his interest in the undertaking or project;
(b) the degree of comradeship he engenders amongst his fellow corps members
and the people within the community he is serving or has served;
(c) industry at work, resourcefulness and initiative;
(d) character, address, temperament and integrity;
(e) leadership and readiness to accept responsibility;
(j) special contributions to the host community; and
(g) any other information which may assist in evaluating the character of each
member of the service corps.

CAP. N84
11. Certificate of National Service
The Directorate shall, on completion of the service of a member of the service corps
unless such person is exempted under section 17 of this Act, issue him with a Certificate
of National Service which shall contain such particulars as may be prescribed.
12. Production of Certificate for employment purposes
(I) For the purposes of employment anywhere in the Federation and before employ-
ment, it shall be the duty of every prospective employer to demand and obtain from any
person who claims to have obtained his first degree at the end of the academic year 1973-
74 or, as the case may be, at the end of any subsequent academic year the following-
(a) a copy of the Certificate of National Service of such person issued pursuant to
section 11 of this Act;
(b) a copy of any exemption certificate issued to such person pursuant to section
17 of this Act; and
(c) such other particulars relevant thereto as may be prescribed by or under this
Act.
(2) It shall also be the duty of every employer to produce on demand to a police offi-
cer, not below the rank of an assistant superintendent of Police, any such certificate and
particulars or copies thereof.
13. Offences and penalties, etc.
(1) Any person-
(a) who fails to report for service in the service corps in the manner directed by
the Directorate or as the case may be, prescribed pursuant to the provisions of
this Act; or
(b) who refuses to make himself available for service in the service corps continu-
ously for the period specified in subsection (2) of this section,
is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of N2,OOOor to imprisonment for
a term of twelve months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) Any person who-
(a) under the provisions of this Act is not eligible to particrpate in the service
corps so participates or attempts to so participate is guilty of an offence; or
(b) having served in the service corps and has been duly issued with a Certificate
of National Service or certificate of exemption, as the case may be, and is not
eligible to serve under the same service corps so participates or attempts to so
participate is guilty of an offence,
and liable on conviction to a fine of N4,OOOor to imprisonment for a term of two years or
to both such fine and imprisonment.
(3) Any person who fails to comply with or who contravenes or causes or aids or
abets another to contravene any provision of this Act (not being a provision relating to
the calling up of members of the service corps) is guilty of an offence and liable on
N84-9 [Issue I]

CAP. N84
conviction to a fine of N5,000 or to imprisonment for a term of three years or to both
such fine and imprisonment.
(4) Any person who-
(a) in giving any information for the purposes of this Act knowingly or recklessly
makes a statement which is false; or
(b) forges or uses or lends to or allows to be used other than in the manner pro-
vided by this Act by any other person any certificate issued pursuant to the
provisions of this Act; or
(c) makes, or has in his possession any document so closely resembling any cer-
tificate so issued as to be calculated to deceive,
is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of N5,000 or to imprisonment for
a term of three years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(5) Where an offence under subsection (3) of this section which has been committed
by a body corporate is proved to have been committed with the consent or connivance of,
or to be attributable to any neglect on the part of any director, manager, secretary or other
official of the body corporate, or any person purporting to act in such capacity, he as well
as the body corporate shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly.
14. Illegal wearing of service corps uniform
Any person who, not being a person serving in the service corps or duly authorised so
to do, wears the uniform or any part of the uniform of the service corps is guilty of an
offence and liable on conviction to a tine of N 1,000 or to imprisonment for a term of six
months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
15. Annual reports and accounts
(I) The Directorate shall prepare and submit to the Minister not later than 31st De-
cember in every year an estimate of its expenditure and income during the next succeed-
ing year.
(2) The Directorate shall keep proper accounts in respect of each year, and proper
records in relation to those accounts and shall cause the accounts to be audited as soon as
may be after the end of the year to which the accounts relate by a firm of auditors
appointed from the list of auditors and in accordance with guidelines supplied by the
Auditor-General for the Federation.
(3) The Directorate shall prepare and submit to the Presidency not later than 30th
June in each year, a report in such form as the Presidency may direct on the activities of
the Directorate during the previous year, and shall include in the report, a copy of the
audited accounts of the Directorate for the previous year and of the auditor's report on
those accounts.
(4) The President shall cause a copy of the report made under this section to be laid
before the National Defence and Security Council.

CAP. N84
16. Regulations
(1) The President may make such regulations as may be necessary or expedient for
the purposes of achieving the objects of this Act, and in particular, without prejudice to
the generality of the foregoing provisions-
(a) for the proper functioning and conduct of the work of the service corps;
(b) setting out the programmes and schedules for the training of the members of
the service corps;
(c) specifying the procedure for call-up and the manner in which notification of
call-up shall be made to members and prospective members thereof;
(d) for providing funds for the use of the Directorate;
(e) for the procedure for determining the medical fitness or otherwise of persons
to be called up and the manner in which such matter shall be determined; and
(j) other matters (unless it is otherwise provided expressly) required to be pre-
scribed by this Act.
(2) The Directorate may, with the approval of the President, make bye-laws for the
proper administration of the service corps, and in particular-
(a) governing the pay, remuneration, allowances and other emoluments and ex-
penses of the persons affected; and
(b) in relation to the general discipline, control and welfare of members of the
service corps.
17. Exemptions from and deferment of service, etc.
(I) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the Directorate may, with the prior ap-
proval of the National Defence and Security Council, by an order published in the Ga-
zette exempt any person from all or any of the provisions of this Act, and may subject
thereto and with such approval impose, in relation to any exemption, such conditions as it
may think fit.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) of this section and with the approval of the
National Defence and Security Council, the Directorate may, on being satisfied that there
is reasonable cause for so doing by an order, defer the calling-up of any person or ca-
tegory of persons liable to be called up for service in the service corps for such period as
may be specified in the order, and may subject to such approval reduce or extend the pe-
riod of service specified in section 2 of this Act in relation to the service of any person or
category of persons liable to be called up.
(3) Where an order is made for an exemption of any person it shall be the duty of the
Directorate to issue to that person a certificate of exemption in the prescribed form, and
for the purposes of this section, where the service of any person in the service corps is
deferred or where the period of service is extended or reduced, as the case may be, pursu-
ant to subsection (2) of this section, a certificate of exemption setting out such particulars
or the prescribed particulars shall be issued to such person.
N84 -11 [Issue I]

CAP. N84
18. Employer to take account of period of service in the service corps
(I) An employer of corps members shall, in determining the seniority of and the sal-
ary or other remuneration, pension and gratuity payable to a graduate who has completed
a period of service corps and been duly discharged therefrom, take account of that period
of service, and such salary or other remuneration, pension and gratuity shall not be less
than that normally due to a graduate in comparable employment for the same period as
the duration of the first mentioned graduate's service in the service corps.
(2) An employer of corps members shall provide the following, that is-
(a) basic accommodation and where it is not available, pay the minimum sum of
N250 per month in lieu of accommodation;
(b) all welfare facilities normally provided for the regular staff including medical
service; and
(c) transport or where it is not available, pay the minimum sum of N 150 per
month in lieu of transport.
19. Protection of members, etc.
The Public Officers Protection Act shall apply to every member of the service corps
and to any other person employed under any undertaking or project for the duration of his
service in the service corps.
lCap. P41.]
20. Appeals
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 19 of this Act any person aggrieved by any
decision of the Directorate or by the exercise by the Directorate of any power under this
Act shall have the right of appeal to the Presidency in the first instance and the Presi-
dency may, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act and subject to the ap-
proval of the National Defence and Security Council confirm or reverse the decision of
the Directorate or take such further measures in relation to the appeal as he may think just
before any action may be commenced in any court of law in Nigeria.
21. Repeal and savings
( I) The National Youth Service Corps Act is hereby repealed.
[Cap. 285. L.F.N. 1990.]
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (I) of this section-
(a) all the amendments to the repealed enactment and all the subsidiary instru-
ments made thereunder shall be deemed to have been made under this Act; and
any call up letter, register kept, registration effected, certificate issued, notice
given, return made or thing done under the repealed enactment which immedi-
ately before the date of commencement of this Act was in force or effect shall
continue in force and have effect as if made, kept, effected, issued, given,
made or done under the corresponding provisions of this Act; and

CAP. N84
(c) any form used and the requirement as to the particulars to be entered in any
form for the purposes of the repealed enactment which was in force or effect
immediately before the date of commencement of this Act shall continue in
force and have effect as things prescribed under this Act with forms or par-
ticulars so prescribed.
22. Interpretation
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-
"academic year" means the year of graduation;
"Committee" means the National Youth Service Corps Local Government Commit-
tee established by section 8 of this Act;
"Directorate" means the body established by section 3 of this Act;
"membership of the Directorate" means the membership as provided for by sec-
tion 3 of this Act;
"member of the service corps" means a person registered as a member of the service
corps;
"Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibility for youth development
and "Ministry" shall be construed accordingly;
"service corps" means the National Youth Service Corps established by section 1 of
this Act;
"State governing board" means the National Youth Service Corps governing board
established by section 6 of this Act;
"State committee" means a National Youth Service Corps local government Com-
mittee set up under section 6 of this Act;
(2) For the purposes of this Act, the reference to a "member of the service corps"
includes, unless the context otherwise requires or it is otherwise expressly provided, a
prospective member of the service corps or any person who is registered as a member.
23. Short title
This Act may be cited as the National Youth Service Corps Act.
N84 -13 [Issue I]

CAP. NH4
CHAPTER N84
NATIONAL YOUTH SERVICE CORPS ACT