5. Pensions

(1) Service in the Agency shall be approved service for the purpose of the Pensions Act and accordingly, officers and other persons employed in the Agency shall be entitled
to pensions, gratuities and other benefits as are prescribed there under.

(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, the Agency may appoint a person to any office on terms which preclude the grant of a pension, gratuity or other retirement
benefits in respect of that office.

(3) For the purpose of the application of the provisions of the Pensions Act, any power exercisable thereunder by a Minister or other authority of the Government of the
Federation, other than the power to make regulations under section 23 thereof, is hereby vested in and shall be exercisable by the Agency and not by any other person or authority.

PART IV

Establishment of Primary Health Care Zones

For the purpose of effectively discharging its functions under this Act, the Agency shall decentralise its field activities and for that purpose, cause the country to be divided
into four Primary Health Care Zones made up as follows-

(a) Zone "A" with headquarters at Enugu, comprising Abia, Akwa Ibom, Anambra,
Bayelsa, Benue, Cross River, Ebonyi, Enugu, Imo and Rivers States;

(b) Zone "B" with headquarters at Ibadan, comprising Delta, Edo, Lagos, Ekiti,
Ondo, Ogun, Osun and Oyo States;

(c) Zone "C" with headquarters at Kaduna, comprising Kaduna, Katsina, Kebbi,
Kogi, Kwara, Niger, Zamfara, Sokoto and the Federal Capital Terri-
tory, Abuja;

(d) Zone "D" with headquarters at Bauchi, comprising of Adamawa, Bauchi, Borno,
Gombe, Jigawa, Kano, Nasarawa, Plateau, Taraba and Yobe States.

PART V

Financial provisions

(1) The Agency shall establish and maintain a fund from which shall be defrayed all expenditure incurred by the Agency.

(2) There shall be paid and credited to the fund established in pursuance of subsection (1) of this section such payments as may be made to it by the Federal Government
for the running expenses of the Agency and all other assets accruing, from time to time, to the Agency.

The Agency may, from time to time, apply the proceeds of the fund established in pursuance of section 7 of this Act-

(a) to the cost of administration of the Agency;

(b) for reimbursing members of the Board or of any committee set up by the Board for such expenses as may be expressly authorised by the Board in accordance with the rates approved by the President;

(c) to the payment of salaries, fees or other remuneration, allowances, pensions and gratuities payable to the officers and servants of the Agency;

(d) for the maintenance of any property vested in the Agency; and

(e) for and in connection with all of its functions under this Act.

9. Annual estimates and accounts

(I) The Board shall, not later than 31 October in each year, submit to the Minister an estimate of the expenditure and income of the Agency during the following year.

(2) The Board shall keep proper accounts of the Agency in respect of each year and proper records in relation thereto and shall cause the accounts to be audited not later than
six months after the end of each year by auditors appointed from the list and in accordance with guidelines supplied by the Auditor-General of the Federation.

PART VI

Miscellaneous

10. Annual reports

The Board shall prepare and submit to the President through the Minister, not later than 30th June in each year, a report in such form as he may direct on the activities of the
Agency during the immediately preceeding year, and shall include in the report a copy of the audited accounts of the Agency for that year and the auditor's report thereon.

11. Access to records, etc.

(I) For the purpose of carrying out the functions of the Agency under this Act, the Executive Director or any other officer of the Agency authorised in that behalf shall-

(a) have a right of access to all the records of any health institution or authority engaged in primary health care;

(b) by notice in writing served on a person in charge of any health institution or authority require that person or authority to furnish information on such mat-
ters as may be specified in the notice.

(2) It shall be the duty of any person or authority required to furnish information pursuant to subsection (1) of this section to comply with the notice within a reasonable
period of time.

12. Power of Minister to give directives

The Minister may give directives of a general or special character to the Agency relating to the performance by the Agency of any or all of its functions under this Act, and
it shall be the duty of the Agency to comply and give effect to the directives.

13. Regulations

The Minister may make regulations for carrying into effect the provisions of this Act.

14. Interpretation

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"Agency" means the National Primary Health Care Development Agency established by section 1 of this Act;

"functions" includes duties and powers;

"Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibility for matters relating tohealth;

"primary health care" includes care designed to prevent disease and promote health and out-patient care, including general medical care, maternal and child health care,
domicilliary health care and rehabilitation and nursing care, including home visits.

15. Short title

This Act may be cited as the National Primary Health Care Development Agency Act.