10. Fund of the gallery

(I) The gallery shall establish and maintain a fund which shall be applied towards the
promotion of the objectives of the gallery.

(2) The funds of the gallery shall consist of-

(a) such funds as the Federal Government may, from time to time, provide;

(b) funds r~ceived from the National Endowment for the Art;

(c) gifts and donations; and

(d) such funds as may be collected or received by the gallery from other sources
and the gallery's own sources of revenue.

11. Power of the Board to accept gifts
(I) The Board shall have power-

(a) to accept gifts of works of art, property, money or other assets from individuals
or organisations where-

(i) the conditions attached by the person or organisation making the gi ft
are not inconsistent with the objectives of the gallery; and

(ii) the gift is not made by a non-Nigerian or an organisation established by
or pursuant to a law not in force in Nigeria;

(b) to invest the gifts to the gallery in other commercial or industrial activities as
the Board may from time to time determine.

(2) For the purpose of the Companies Income Tax Act, a donation of any amount of
money or an original work of art by a company shall be a deductible donation within the
meaning of that Act.

[Cap. C20.]

(3) A contribution made or raised shall be considered a deductible expense in computing business profit for tax purposes.

12. Director and other staff of the gallery

(I) The President shall appoint a director for the gallery who shall-

(a) be the chief executive of the gallery;

(b) be responsible for the day-to-day administration of the gallery;

National Gallery of Art Act

(c) keep records and conduct correspondence of the gallery ; and

(d) carry out such other duties as the Board may, from time to time, direct.

(2) The Board may appoint such other staff to assist the gallery in the performance of
its functions under this Act.

13. Service in the gallery to be pensionable

(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of the Pensions Act, service in the gallery shall be
approved service for the purposes of that Act and accordingly, officers and other persons
employed in the gallery shall be entitled to such pensions, gratuities and other retirement
benefits as are prescribed under the Pensions Act, so however that nothing in this Act
shall prevent the appointment of a person to any office on terms which preclude the grant
of a pension and gratuity in respect of that office.

[Cap. P4.]

(2) For the purposes of the application of the provisions of the Pensions Act, any
power exercisable under the Act by a Minister or other authority of the Government of
the Federation, other than the power to make regulations under section 23 of the Act, is
hereby vested in and shall be exercisable by the gallery and not by any other person or
authority.

14. Annual estimates and accounts

(I) The Board shall not, later than 31 October in each year, cause to be prepared and
submitted to the President for consideration and approval, an estimate of the income and
expenditure of the gallery for the next succeeding year.

(2) The gallery shall cause to be kept proper accounts in respect of each year and
proper records in relation to those accounts and when certified by the Board shall be
audited as provided in subsection (3) of this section.

(3) The accounts of the gallery shall be audited not later than six months after the end
of each year by auditors appointed by the Board from the list of auditors and in accor-
dance with the guidelines supplied by the Auditor-General for the Federation.

15. Annual report

The gallery shall, not later than 30 September in each year, prepare and submit to the
President through the Board, a report on the activities of the gallery during the preceding
year, in such form as the Minister shall determine.

16. Power of State to establish, etc., gallery

The Government of a State or a local government may establish a gallery for the State
or local government area and shall have power to make laws or bye-laws for the-

(a) acquisition of;

(b) commissioning of;

(c) collection of; and

(d) disbursement of funds raised for works of art.

National Gallery of Art Act

17. Regulations

The Minister may make regulations as may be necessary or expedient for giving full
effects to the provisions of this Act.

18. Interpretation

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"gallery" means the National Gallery of Art established under section I of this Act;

"Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibility for art.

19. Short title

This Act may be cited as the National Gallery of Art Act.