3. The Director

(l) There shall be a Director of the National Library who, subject to subsection (2) of
this section, shall be appointed by the Board and shall be a person appearing to the Board
to have shown exceptional capacity in the organisation and administration of a library
and services comparable to those envisaged by this Act.

(2) A person shall not be appointed as the Director unless his appointment is approved by the Minister.

(3) The Director shall hold and vacate office in accordance with the terms of the instrument by which he is appointed.

(4) Subject to the Board's financial, operational and administrative policy programmes, the
Director shall have the general function of organising and managing the
National Library and the services provided in pursuance of this Act, and, in particular, the
function of directing the activities of the officers and servants of the Board and managing
the Board's financial affairs.

(5) Subject to subsection (4) of this section, the Director shall be free to manage the
National Library as he thinks fit, in accordance with this Act, and the Board shall not
interfere with his methods or with the manner in which he deploys the material and
human resources of the Board in order to obtain results in accordance with this Act.

(I) The publisher of every book published in Nigeria shall, within one month after
the publication, deliver at his own expense to the National Library three copies of the
book, two of which shall be kept in the National Library for permanent preservation and
one of which shall be sent by the Director to the Ibadan University Library.

(2) The copies of the book delivered to the National Library under subsection (I) of
this section-

(a) shall be perfect copies of the whole book, with all maps and illustrations
belonging thereto, finished and coloured in the same manner as the best copies of
the book are published; and

(b) shall be bound, sewed or stitched together and in the best paper on which the
book is printed.

(3) Where any printed matter (other than matter of such descriptions as the Director
may specify from time to time) is published by or on behalf of any department of
Government of the Federation or of a State, it shall be the duty of the official in charge of the
department to deliver forthwith to the Director for the purposes of the National Library-

(a) 25 copies of the publication, if it is published by or on behalf of a department
of Government of the Federation; or

(b) ten copies of the publication, if it is published by or on behalf of a department
of Government of a State,or such smaller numbers of copies as the Director may determine in any particular case.

(4) If a publisher fails to comply with any provision of subsection (I) or (2) of this
section, he shall be guilty of an offence and on conviction shall be liable to a fine not
exceeding N I 00; and the court before which he is convicted may in addition order him to
deliver to the Director three copies of the book in question or to pay to the Director the
value of those copies.

(5) The President may, by order in the Federal Gazette, exclude any publisher or
book, or any class of publisher or book, from the operation of subsections (I) and (2) of
this section.

(6) The obligations imposed by this section are additional to any similar obligations
which may be imposed by any law in force in a State other than this Act.

(7) In this section "book" includes-

(a) all literary works such as books, pamphlets, sheets of music, maps, charts,
plans, tables and compilations;

(b) dramatic works;

(c) collective works such as encyclopaedias, dictionaries, year books or similar
works, newspapers, magazines and similar periodicals;

(d) any work written in distinct parts by different authors or in which a part or
parts of work of different authors is or are incorporated, and every part or division of such a work; and

(e) all forms in which documentary or oral records are published; "publisher", in
relation to a book, means any person authorising or causing the book to be
printed and distributed in Nigeria, excluding the Federal Government and the
Governor of a State (or any person acting on its or his behalf), a public officer
acting in his capacity as such and any person distributing in Nigeria a book
published elsewhere.

5. General financial provisions

(1) The Board is hereby empowered-

(a) to receive all funds which may, from time to time, be granted to it by the Fed-
eral Government and to apply and administer those funds in accordance with
such terms and conditions as may be attached to the grant and in accordance
with this Act; and

(b) to receive all other monies otherwise obtained by the Board and to apply and
administer those monies in furtherance of the purpose of this Act and in accordance with
any terms and conditions upon which those monies may have been obtained.

(2) The Board shall submit to the Minister, not later than 31 October in each financial
year, an estimate of its expenditure and income during the next succeeding financial year;
and it shall be the duty of the Director to prepare for the consideration of the Board, the
estimate which in his opinion it would be proper for the Board to submit to the Minister
in pursuance of this subsection.

(3) The receipts of the Board on revenue account in any financial year shall be applied in payment of the following charges-

(a) the remuneration and allowances payable to members of the Board;

(b) the salaries, fees or other remuneration or allowances, and pensions, superannuation
allowances and gratuities, payable to the Director and officers of the Board;

(c) expenditure on the maintenance of any property vested in the Board;

(d) provision for the depreciation or the renewal of any assets vested in the Board;

(e) interest due on any debenture stock or other stock issued or any temporary loan
raised by the Board;

(f) the sums required to be transferred to a sinking fund or otherwise, set aside for
the purpose of making provision for the repayment of debenture stock or the
repayment of other borrowed monies;

(g) such allocation to any general reserve established under section 6 of this Act
and to contingencies or any other reserve as may in the opinion of the Board,
be appropriate;

(h) grants for purposes conducive to the welfare of persons employed by the Board;

(i) such contributions to such charitable objects as the Board, with the approval of
the Minister, may determine;

(j) the purchase of books, equipment and other related material; and

(k) such other charges as may be reasonably incurred in the exercise of the
Board's functions,and the balance, if any, shall be applied to such charitable or public purposes and in such
manner as the Minister may direct.

(4) The financial year of the Board shall coincide with that of the Federal Government.

6. General reserve

(I) Without prejudice to the power of the Board to set aside from revenue appropriate
amounts for replacements, contingencies or other purposes, the Board may establish and
maintain a general reserve.

(2) The management of the general reserve, the sums to be carried from time to time
to the credit of the general reserve, the charges to be made against the general reserve and
any other application of the monies comprised therein, shall be as the Board may with the
approval of the Minister determine:

Provided that no part of the monies comprised in the general reserve shall be applied otherwise
than for the purposes of the Board.

7. Power to borrow and invest

(I) The Board may, with the consent of or in accordance with any general authority
given by the President, borrow by way of loan from the Federal Government, or by way
of temporary overdraft approved by the Minister, sums required by the Board for meeting
its obligations and discharging its functions under this Act.

(2) The Board may invest all or any of its funds in such manner as may be approved
by the Minister.

(3) Subject to section 5 of this Act, the Minister may, with the approval of the President, issue to
the Board directives as to the disposal of surplus funds.

8. Accounts and audit

(I) The Board shall keep proper accounts and other records relating thereto and shall
prepare in respect of each financial year a statement of accounts in such form, as the
Minister may direct.

(2) The accounts of the Board shall be audited by auditors appointed from the list of
auditors and in accordance with the guidelines supplied by the Auditor-General for the
Federation.

(3) As soon as the accounts of the Board have been audited, the Board shall furnish a
copy of the statement of accounts to the Minister, together with a copy of any report
made by the auditors on their statement or on the accounts of the Board.

9. Annual report, etc.

(1) The Board shall prepare and submit to the Minister not later than 30 May in each
financial year, a report in such form as the Minister may direct on the activities of the
Board during the last preceding financial year, and shall include in the report a copy of
the audited accounts of the Board for the last preceding financial year and of the auditors'
report on those accounts.

(2) The Minister shall cause a copy of each report made to him under this section to
be laid before the Federal Government.

(3) The Minister may, by notice in writing served on the Director, require the Board
to furnish the Minister with all information within its power relating to such matters
connected with any activity of the Board as may be specified in the notice; and it shall be the
duty of the Board to comply with the requirements of the notice.

10. Legal proceedings, service of documents, etc.

(1) No suit against the Board, and no suit against any member, officer or servant of
the Board in his capacity as such, shall lie or be instituted in any court unless it is
commenced within the twelve months following the act, neglect or default complained of or,
in the case of a continuance of damage or injury, within the twelve months following the
cessation thereof.

(2) No suit shall be commenced against the Board or against any member, officer or
servant of the Board in his capacity as such, until one month at least after there has been
served on the Board by or on behalf of the intending plaintiff, written notice of intention
to commence the suit, stating-

(a) the cause of action;

(b) the particulars of the claim; and

(c) the name and place of abode of the intending plaintiff and the relief claimed.

(3) The notice referred to in subsection (2) of this section and any summons, notice
or other document required or authorised to be served on the Board may, except where
there is express provision to the contrary, be served-

(a) by delivering it to the chairman or the Director; or

(b) by sending it by registered post, addressed to the Director, at the principal office of the Board.

(4) In any suit, the Board, without prejudice to any other right of representation, may
be represented at any stage of the proceedings by any member, officer or servant of the
Board who is duly authorised in writing by the Board in that behalf.

(5) In any suit against the Board, no execution or attachment or process in the nature
thereof shall be issued against the Board, but any sums of money which may by the
judgment of the court be awarded against the Board shall (subject to any directions given
by the court where notice of appeal has been given by the Board in respect of the judgment),
be paid by the Board from the funds of the Board.

(6) In this section, "suit" means any civil proceedings however commenced.

11. Compulsory acquisition of land

(I) Whenever there is any hindrance to the acquisition by the Board of any land required
for any purpose of the Board under this Act (including any failure by the Board to
reach agreement as to the amount to be paid in respect of the acquisition), the Minister,
on the application of the Board and after such enquiry as he may think fit, may declare
that the land is required for the service of the Board.

(2) Where a declaration is made under subsection (I) of this section, the land to
which the declaration relates shall be deemed to be land required for a public purpose of
the Federation, within the meaning of the Land Use Act, and the President-

[Cap. LS.]

(a) may cause action to be taken under that Act for acquiring the land for the Federal Government; or

(b) if the land is customary land, may issue a requisition under section 28 (3) of
the Land Use Act for the revocation of any rights relating to the land.

(3) Where a declaration has been made under subsection (I) of this section in respect
of any land other than customary land and-

(a) the land has been acquired pursuant to subsection (2) (a) of this section; or

(b) the President is satisfied that there are no rights subsisting in respect of the
land,the President may vest the land in the Board by means of a certificate under the hand and
seal of the Registrar of Deeds.

(4) Where a declaration has been made under subsection (I) of this section in respect
of any customary land and-

(a) the rights relating thereto have been revoked pursuant to subsection (2) (b) of
this section; or

(b) the Governor of the State in which the land is situated is satisfied that there are
no rights subsisting in respect of the land,the Governor in question may grant to the Board a
right of occupancy of the land on such terms and conditions as he thinks fit.

(5) The compensation, if any, payable under the Land Use Act for the acquisition of
any land under this section or payable under the Land Use Act for the revocation of any
rights relating to the land, as the case may be, shall in the first instance be paid by the
Federal Government, but the Board shall refund to that Government any compensation so
paid and all incidental expenses incurred by that Government.

[Cap. LS.]

(6) A plan of any land referred to in subsection (I) of this section-

(a) containing measurements of the boundaries of the land;

(b) showing the relationship of the land to any sufficient identifying mark; and

(c) signed by the Director,shall be a sufficient description of the land for the purposes
of an application under that subsection.

(7) The Board shall not, without the approval in writing of-

(a) the President; or

(b) in the case of customary land, the Governor of the State in which the land is
situated,alienate, mortgage, charge or demise any immovable property which has been vested in
the Board under this section or in respect of which a right of occupancy has been so
granted to the Board.

(8) In this section "customary land" has the same meaning as in the Land Use Act.

12. Repeal, etc., of 1964 No.6

(1) The National Library Act 1964 is hereby repealed, and the National Library
Board established by that Act, is hereby dissolved.

(2) The transitional and saving provisions in the Second Schedule to this Act, shall
have effect notwithstanding any other provision of this Act.

[Second Schedule.]

13. Interpretation

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"Board" means the National Library Board, established by this Act;

"chairman" means the chairman of the Board;

"Director" means the Director of the National Library;

"Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibility for information;

"National Library" means the National Library of Nigeria, established and main-
tained by the Board;

"State" means a State of the Federation.

14. Short title

This Act may be cited as the National Library Act.