7. Delegation by the Board

(I) The Board may, by an instrument in writing under its common seal, delegate to any person or body such of its duties as may be necessary to be performed in or outside
the Federation:

Provided that any such person or body shall have no control over the money of the Agency and shall act in all respects in accordance with the direction of the Board.

(2) The Board may, from time to time, form committees to consider special questions as may be referred to them by the Board; and any such committee shall perform its func-
tions according to directions given to it by the Board.

8. Financial provisions

(I) The Agency shall establish and maintain a fund (in this section referred to as "the fund") from which shall be defrayed all expenditure incurred by the Agency.

(2) There shall be paid and credited to the fund--

(a) such moneys as may, from time to time, be granted to the Agency by the Federal Government; and

(b) all other moneys which may, from time to time, accrue to the Agency.

(3) The fund shall be applied towards the promotion of the objects of the Agency under this Act and the payment of remuneration (including provisions for pension, gratu-
ity, superannuation or other retirement benefits) to or in respect of any employee or agent of the Agency.

(4) The Board may, with the approval of the President, borrow money in connection with the operations of the Agency, and invest part of the fund in such securities as the
Minister may, from time to time, approve.

9. Accounts, audit, etc.

(I) The Board shall prepare and submit to the Minister, not later than 31 October each year, an estimate of its expenditure and income during the next succeeding financial
year.

(2) The Board shall keep proper accounts in respect of each financial year, and proper records in relation to those accounts and shall cause the accounts to be audited as
soon as may be after the end of the financial year to which the accounts relate by a firm of auditors approved from the list and in accordance with guidelines supplied by the
Auditor-General for the Federation.

(3) The Board shall prepare and submit to the Minister, not later than 30 June in each financial year, a report in such form as the Minister may direct, on the activities of the
Agency during the last financial year and shall include in the report a copy of the audited accounts of the Agency for that last financial year and of the auditor's report on those
accounts.

(4) The Minister shall cause a copy of each report made to him under this section to be laid before the President.

10. Power to hold land, etc.

The Agency shall have power-

(a) to acquire and hold property, whether movable or immovable; and

(b) to enter into contracts.

11. Seal of the Agency

The seal of the Agency may, from time to time, be broken, changed, altered or made anew as seems fit:

Provided that until a seal is provided under this section, a stamp bearing the inscription "News Agency of Nigeria" may be used as the common seal.

12. Offices of the Agency

The Agency shall have a principal office in the Federation and may establish such other office or offices at such place or places in or outside the Federation as the Board
with the approval of the Minister may, from time to time, determine.

13. Guarantee of full service

(I) Notwithstanding any arrangements which the Agency may enter into or make for the reception and distribution of international news, subscribers to the Agency may, on
request and on terms in regard to payment to be decided by the Board, receive through the Agency the full service supplied to the Agency by an international news agency.

(2) Arrangements for news collection and distribution made by the Agency shall be without prejudice to the right of Nigerian newspapers and radio subscribers to make their
own independent arrangements for news coverage by their own correspondents.

(3) The term "correspondents" in subsection (2) of this section, shall include the editorial staff of a newspaper or any person who writes or supplies news for a fee either
as a part-time or whole-time occupation.

14. Exemption from stamp duty

The Agency shall be exempt from all stamp duties payable under any law, for the time being in force in Nigeria.

15. Protection against personal liability by members of the Board

No member of the Board shall incur any personal liability for any loss or damage caused by any act or omission in the management or conduct of the affairs of the Agency,
unless such loss or damage was occasioned by an intentionally wrongful act or omission on his part.

16. Vesting of certain assets in the Board

Upon the commencement of this Act, all moneys or other assets, if any, in the custody or control of any person by virtue of any authority whatsoever given to or received by
such person for or on behalf of the Agency in anticipation of the commencement of this Act together with interest, if any, accruing thereon shall be deemed to form part of the
income of the Agency and shall be transferred to and be vested in the Board.

17. Interpretation

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires--

"Agency" means the News Agency of Nigeria, established under section I (I) of this Act;

"Board" means the Board of Directors, referred to in section 3 (I) of this Act;

"Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibility for information;

"principal office" means any office of the Agency in Nigeria so designated by the Agency.

18. Short title

This Act may be cited as the News Agency of Nigeria Act.