1. Establishment of the Nigeria Export Processing Zones
(1) The President may from time to time, by order, upon the recommendation of the
Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority established under this Act, designate such
area as he thinks fit to be an export processing zone (in this Act referred to as "a Zone").
(2) The Zone established pursuant to subsection (1) of this section, may be operated
and managed by a public, private or a combination of public and private entity under the
supervision of and with the approval of the Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority
established by section 2 of this Act.
(3) Every order made pursuant to subsection (1) of this section, shall specify the lim-
its of the area designated and ascribe a name to that Zone.
(4) The Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority may from time to time, by order,
amend, vary or add to the limits of a Zone or change the name of a Zone.
(5) An order made under subsection (3) of this section shall not affect an approved
enterprise existing before the commencement of the order.
2. Establishment, of the Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority and its governing
Board, etc.
(1) There is hereby established for the Nigeria Export Processing Zones, an authority
to be known as the Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (in this Act referred to as
"the Authority").

(2) The Authority shall be a body corporate, with perpetual succession and a common
seal and may sue and be sued in its corporate name and shall be capable of acquiring,
holding or disposing of any property, movable or immovable, for the purpose of carrying
out its functions.
3. Membership of the governing Board
(1) There shall be for the Authority a governing Board which shall consist of a
chairman to be appointed by the President on the recommendation of the Minister and the
following other members, that is to say-
(a) a representative each from the following Federal Ministries, that is-
(i) Commerce;
(ii) Culture and Tourism;
(iii) Industry; and
(iv) Science and Technology;
(b) the Comptroller-General of Customs or his representative not below the rank
of an assistant director;
(c) the Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority or his representative not
below the rank of a deputy director;
(d) one representative each from the following bodies, that is-
(i) the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industries, Mines
and Agriculture;
(ii) the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria;
(iii) the Association of Nigerian Exporters;
(e) two persons to be appointed by the Minister from the private sector who shall
be persons possessing practical experience in industry, commerce, finance, ex-
port promotion and other related fields;
(f) a representative of the Central Bank of Nigeria not below the rank of a Director; and
(g) the managing director of the Authority.
(2) A member of the Board other than ex-officio member shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, hold
office for a period of four years from the date of his appointment
as a member and shall be eligible for reappointment for one further period of two years
and thereafter he shall no longer be eligible for reappointment.
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (2) of this section, the President may on the recommendation of the Minister
require any member to vacate his office if his continued membership will not be in the interest of the Authority.
(4) Any member of the Board other than an ex-officio member may by notice in
writing to the Board resign his appointment.
(5) The supplementary provisions contained in the First Schedule to this Act shall
have effect with respect to the tenure of office of the members and the proceedings of the
Board and other matters relating to the Board.
[First Schedule.]

4. Functions of the Authority
In addition to any other functions conferred on the Authority by this Act, the functions and
responsibilities of the Authority shall include-
(a) the administration of the Authority and management of all the Export Processing Zones;
(b) the approval of development plans of the Authority and the Zones' annual
budgets in respect of infrastructures, administrative buildings, promotion of
Zones, the provision and maintenance of services and facilities;
(c) the establishment of customs, police, immigration and similar posts in the
Zones;
(d) the supervision and coordination of the functions of various public sector and
private sector organisations operating within the Zones and resolving any dispute that
may arise amongst them;
(e) the resolution of trade disputes between employers and employees in the Zone,
in consultation with the Federal Ministry of Employment, Labour and Productivity;
( f ) the adaptation of investment promotion strategies in the Zones, including the
opening of investment promotion offices abroad;
(g) the recommendation to the Federal Government of additional incentive measures for the
Zones;
(h) the establishment and supervision of zonal administrations for the purpose of
managing the Zones and the grant of all requisite permits and licences to approved
enterprises. .
5. Appointment of managing director, secretary and other employees
(1) There shall be for the Authority a managing director who shall be the chief executive and shall
be appointed by the President on the recommendation of the Minister.
(2) The managing director shall be responsible for-
(a) the preparation of plans, annual programmes and budget;
(b) the recommendation of bye-laws applicable in each Zone;
(c) the development of strategies for the promotion of the Zones inside and out-
side the country;
(d) the implementation of the approved plans, programmes and budgets;
(e) the day-to-day administration of the Authority.
(3) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1) of this section, the Authority
shall have power to-
(a) appoint a secretary who shall be qualified to practice as a legal practitioner in
Nigeria and has been so qualified for not less than ten years;
(b) pay the employees such remuneration and allowances as it may, from time to
time, determine;

(c) pay the employees such pensions and gratuities as are payable to persons of
equivalent grades in the public service of the Federation.
6. Approved activities, etc.
(1) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, the activities specified in the Third
Schedule to this Act shall be approved activities for the purposes of this Act.
[Third Schedule.]
(2) The Authority may, from time to time, prescribe the activities which may be carried on in a
Zone, and for this purpose may, by order, amend the Second Schedule to this
Act.
[Second Schedule.]
7. Vesting of property in the Authority
The President or Governor of a State respectively may, by order, transfer to the
Authority, any property belonging to the Federal or State Governments respectively
which appears to be necessary or expedient to the Authority in carrying out its functions
under this Act and such property shall vest in the Authority by virtue of the order and
without further assurance.
8. Exemption from taxes
Approved enterprises operating within a Zone shall be exempted from all Federal,
State and Government taxes, levies and rates.
9. Approval of enterprise to undertake approved activity
(1) Any enterprise which proposes to undertake an approved activity within a Zone,
shall apply to the Authority in writing for permission to do so and shall submit such
documents and information in support of its application as the Authority may require.
(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Authority may grant, subject to such
terms and conditions as it thinks fit, approval for an enterprise to undertake the approved
activity specified in its application brought under subsection (1) of this section.
(3) For the purposes of this section, "approved activity" means any of the activities
specified in the Third Schedule to this Act.
[Third Schedule.]
10. Power to grant licence
(1) The Authority may grant a licence for any approved activity in a Zone to an individual or
business concern whether or not the business is incorporated in the customs
territory.
(2) The grant of a license by the Authority shall constitute registration for the purposes of company
registration within the Zone.
(3) A licensed company operating within a Zone and undertaking an approved activity shall notify
the Authority of any purchase, assignment or transfer of shares in the
company, except where the company's shares are quoted and are freely transferable on
any international Stock Exchange.

(4) The Authority shall by order, from time to time, prescribe the regulations governing the Zone.
11. Payment of goods and services
(1) Where an approved enterprise operating in a Zone supplies goods and services to
customers within the customs territory, that enterprise shall be entitled to receive payment for such
goods and services in foreign currency and for the purposes of such payment, the normal rules and
regulations applicable to importation of goods and services
into Nigeria and repatriation of the proceeds of sales or services shall apply.
(2) Where a person within the customs territory supplies goods and services to an approved
enterprise established within a Zone, that person shall be entitled to receive payment for such goods or
services in foreign currency and the rules and regulations applicable to export from Nigeria and the
repatriation of proceeds from sales or services shall
apply.
12. Import of goods into the Zone
(1) The Authority and any approved enterprise shall be entitled to import into a Zone,
free of customs duty, any capital goods, consumer goods, raw materials, components or
articles intended to be used for the purposes of and in connection with an approved activity, including
any article for the construction, alteration, reconstruction, extension or re-
pair of premises in a Zone or for equipping such premises.
(2) For the purposes of this section, articles for equipping premises shall be deemed
to include equipment for offices and other ancillary facilities necessary for the proper
administration of the premises and for the health, safety, hygiene and welfare of the
premises and of persons employed therein.
(3) The Authority may by order, amend or vary the articles specified in the Fourth