1. Establishment of Institute and incorporation

(1) There is established for the profession of Animal Science, an institute to be
known as the Nigerian Institute of Animal Science (in this Act referred to as "the Institute").

(2) The Institute shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common
seal and shall to sue and be sued in its corporate name and shall have power to own, hold
and dispose of property whether movable or immovable.

2. Functions of Institute

The functions of the Institute are to-

(a) prescribe and regulate the standards of academic qualification and practical
skills to be attained by persons seeking to become registered as Members, Associates
or Fellows of the Institute, as the case may be;

(b) prescribe the code of conduct for Animal Scientists;

(c) regulate the practice of the profession for Animal Scientists;

(d) establish and maintain a register of Animal Science Practitioners under this
Act according to their various ranks and to regulate the prerogatives and privileges pertaining to those ranks;

(e) ensure that Animal Science Practitioners in Nigeria uphold the ethics of the
profession and guarantee the production of high quality animal proteins;

(f) advance the education, science, technology and art of Animal Science and
livestock production;

(g) promote the production of animals;

(h) promote rapid production of high quality animal proteins through scientific
methods, and regulate all issues pertaining to animal husbandry in Nigeria;

(i) advise and encourage the enactment and the enforcement of laws that will
guarantee efficient production and consistent supply of high quality animal
proteins to Nigerians;

(j) educate the public on Animal Science activities;

(k) co-operate or affiliate with any relevant association on animal production
either locally or internationally; and

(l) establish, update and maintain a Register of Animal Scientists under this Act
according to their various ranks and to regulate the prerogatives and privileges
pertaining to those ranks.

3. Powers of Institute

The Institute shall have power to-

(a) establish and promote research facilities and all manner of studies in Animal Science;

(b) establish such offices, departments, units and branches of the Institute as may
be required for the proper administration and operation of the Institute;

(c) subject to such terms and conditions as the Institute may approve, engage
staff, agents and other workers as the Institute may from time to time require
for the performance of its functions under this Act;

(d) establish necessary organisation for the proper and efficient conduct of the
affairs of the Institute;

(e) provide staff regulations for all staff of the Institute and provide pension and
welfare schemes for the staff; and

(f) do such other acts and things as may be necessary for the performance of the
functions of the Institute.

PART II

Establishment and Functions of Council

4. Establishment of Council

(1) There shall be established for the Institute a Governing Council to be known as
the Council of the Nigerian Institute of Animal Science (in this Act referred to as the
"Council").

(2) The Council shall consist of-

(a) the President;

(b) the two Vice-Presidents;

(c) the Registrar; and

(d) fourteen persons who shall be elected by the Institute, respectively to represent
each of the following disciplines of Animal Science studies:

(i) Animal Bio-technology;

(ii) Livestock Economics and Marketing;

(iii) Livestock Extension and Information Technology;

(iv) Range and Pasture Science;

(v) Animal Genetics and Breeding;

(vi) Dairy Science;

(vii) Poultry Science;

(viii) Beef Production Science;

(ix) Swine Production Science;

(x) Small Ruminant Production Science

(xi) Animal Reproductive Physiology and Bio-climatology;

(xii) Micro-livestock, Forestry and Wildlife;

(xiii) the Feed Milling Industry;

(xiv) Livestock Processing and Preservation Technology;

(e) the Minister of Agriculture or his representative;

(f) the Minister of Education or his representative;

(g) the Minister of Environment or his representative;

(h) the Minister of Science and Technology or his representative;

(i) the Minister of Water Resources or his representative;

(j) one representative of the Nigerian Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines
and Agriculture to be elected by the Chamber;

(k) one person to be elected by the Institute to represent agro-allied industries;

(l) three persons to be elected by the Institute to represent the various faculties,
colleges and universities of Agriculture in Nigeria.

5. Election of members of Council

The President, 2 Vice-Presidents and other members of the Council mentioned in
paragraphs (c), (i) and (k) of subsection (2) of section 4 of this Act, shall be elected by
the Institute from amongst the members, at an annual general meeting of the Institute:
Provided that, the first such members, shall be elected at a special general meeting
convened by the Animal Science Association of Nigeria immediately after the commencement
of this Act, for the purpose of electing them.

6. Tenure of Office

(1) The term of Office of a member of the Council other than an ex officio member
shall be three years but such member shall at the end of that term be eligible for re-
election, for one more term only.

(2) The Office of a member of the Council shall become vacant if the member-

(a) resigns his Office, by notice under his hand, addressed to the Council;

(b) is removed from Office by the Council, by reason of his professional
misconduct or physical or mental infirmity; or

(c) without leave of the Council, absents himself from 3 consecutive meetings of the Council.

7. Functions of the Council

The functions of the Council shall be to-

(a) carry into effect the functions and powers of the Institute;

(b) govern the affairs of the Institute;

(c) effect proper management of the Institute; and

(d) do other acts and things as the Council may consider necessary for carrying
out the functions and powers of the Institute.

8. Funds

The funds of the Institute shall consist of-

(a) contributions, levies, subscriptions, fees and other dues paid by the members;

(b) revenue accruing to the Institute from its investments, activities and services;

(c) grants, endowments and donations from Governments, agencies, organisations,
benefactors and other donors;

(d) revenue accruing to the Institute from any other source approved by the Council.

9. Bank account

The funds of the Institute shall be paid into an account in a reputable bank approved
by the Council and no instrument for the withdrawal of any money from that account
shall be valid unless it is authenticated by the signatures of the President and the Registrar
or by the signatures of such officers of the Institute as may from time to time be approved by the Council.

10. Investment

The Institute may from time to time subject to such terms and conditions as the Council
may approve, invest any part of its funds in any securities and may at any time dispose of such securities.

11. Borrowing power

The Institute may from time to time, subject to such terms and conditions as the
Council may approve, borrow such money as the Council may require for carrying out
any of the functions of the Institute.

12. Accounts of the Institute

(1) The Institute shall keep and maintain proper accounts of its income and expenditure
and shall by the 30th day of September of each year submit such accounts to be
audited by any auditor approved by the Accountant-General of the Federation.

(2) The audited accounts of the Institute and the auditor's report thereon shall, not
later than the 31st day of December of each year, be submitted by the Institute, to the
Minister of Agriculture who shall forthwith lay them before each House of the National
Assembly.

PART III

Registrar and Registration

13. Appointment of Registrar

(1) There shall be appointed by the Council, a fit and proper person to be the Registrar of the Institute.

(2) The Registrar shall, subject to the overall control of the Council-

(a) be the Secretary to the Council;

(b) keep custody of the Register of the Institute and make such entries in the
Register as the Council may from time to time by resolution, direct;

(c) keep custody of the common seal of the Institute and affix the same to such
documents as the Council may direct; and

(d) carry out other duties as the Councilor the President may from time to time direct.

14. Register of Institute

The Institute shall keep and maintain a register of all the members including the As-
sociates, Fellows and Honorary Fellows.

15. Registration of members

(1) The Institute may subject to the provisions of this Act, and such rules as the
Council may make in that regard, admit and register any-

(a) person as a registered Member;

(b) Member as an Associate;

(c) Member of Associate as a Fellow; or

(d) person as an Honorary Fellow.

16. Registered Members

A person shall be eligible to be admitted and registered as a Member if that person
is-

(a) a holder of a first degree or equivalent qualification in Animal Sciences from
any accredited institution and has in addition 5 years post graduation or post
qualification working experience;

(b) a member of any equivalent Animal Science body or Institute, recognised by
the Council.

17. Associates

A Member shall be eligible to be registered as an Associate if-

(a) that Member has contributed significantly either by research efforts, publica-
tions and experience in Animal Science, to the growth and development of
Animal Science and related areas; and

(b) the Council is satisfied that the Member is a fit and proper person to be elevated to the rank of Associate.

18. Fellows

A person who is a Member or Associate shall be eligible to be registered as a Fellow
if-

(a) that person has by research efforts, publications and experience in any area of
Animal Science, contributed significantly to the growth and development of Animal Science or related areas;

(b) the Council is satisfied that that person is a fit and proper person to be elevated
to the rank of Fellow;

(c) the person holds the minimum academic qualification that admits ordinary members.

19. Honorary Fellow

A person may be registered as an Honorary Fellow if-

(a) that person is distinguished in any area of Animal Production or related industry; and

(b) the Council is satisfied that the person is a fit and proper person to be elevated
to the rank of Honorary Fellow.

20. Certificate and honours

The Council may subject to its rules in that regard award distinctive certificate and
other honours to any person, Member, Associate, Fellow or Honorary Fellow as the case
may be, for any distinctive honours, achievement in any discipline or area of agriculture.

PART IV

Accreditation of Animal Science institutions

21. Accreditation

(1) Every Faculty, College or University of Agriculture in Nigeria shall on demand
by the Council submit to the Council details of its curricula and courses of study in
Animal Science and related sciences for the consideration and approval of the Council.

(2) The Council shall thereupon, delegate a committee of the Council to evaluate the
contents of such curricula and courses and ensure that such curricula and courses
sufficiently endow any person pursuing such curricula and courses, with the requisite
knowledge, skill and working experience for the practice of the Animal Science profession.

(3) The Council shall where such curricula and courses are approved, thereafter by
instrument, accredit such Faculty, College or University as the case may be, as a fit and
proper institution for the training of prospective members.

(4) Subject to this Act a person who has not obtained his first degree or other academic
qualification from an accredited institution shall not be eligible to be registered as
a Member.

PART V

Professional Discipline

22. Professional misconduct

In this Part, "professional misconduct" means any conduct considered by the Council
to be professional misconduct and includes professional indiscipline, unjust enrichment
of any person, abuse of office and corrupt practice in the conduct of a member in
the public service.

23. Disciplinary Tribunal

(1) There shall be established for the Institute, a Disciplinary Tribunal to be known
as the Nigerian Institute of Animal Science Disciplinary Tribunal (in this Act referred to
as the "Tribunal").

(2) The Tribunal shall hear and determine any case of professional misconduct
against any Animal Scientist in the discharge of his official duties as a professional Animal Scientist.

(3) The Tribunal shall consist of the President and 6 other Members to be appointed
by the Council.

24. Investigating Panel

(1) There shall, for the purpose of the proceedings before the Tribunal, be established a panel
to be known as the Investigating Panel of the Nigerian Institute of Animal
Science (in this act referred to as the "Panel").

(2) The Panel shall-

(a) conduct preliminary investigations into any allegation of complaint of
professional misconduct against any Member, Associate or Fellow of the Institute;
and

(b) decide whether or not such Member, Associate or Fellow has a case to answer
before the Tribunal and where applicable to refer such case to the Tribunal for
hearing and determination.

(3) The Panel shall consist of a Chairman and 4 other members to be appointed by
the Council.

25. Tribunal Rules

The Council may make rules to regulate the proceedings of the Tribunal and the Investigating
Tribunal Rules Panel, but until such rules are made the rules contained in the