7. Power of Minister to give directions to the Council

The Minister may give to the Council directions of a general character or relating generally to particular matters with regard to the exercise by the Council of its functions,
and it shall be the duty of the Council to comply with the directions.

(I) The Council shall appoint an administrative secretary to the Centre (in this Act referred to as "the secretary") who shall be an officer but not a member of the Council and
who shall keep the records and conduct the correspondence of the Council and shall perform such other duties of a secretarial nature as the director of the Centre or the Council
may, from time to time, direct.

(2) The Council may appoint such other persons to be officers and servants of the Council as the Council may determine to assist the director of the Centre in the exercise
of his functions.

(3) The remuneration and tenure of office and conditions of service of the director and other officers and servants of the Centre shall be determined by the Minister after
consultation with the Council.

(I) The Federal Civil Service Commission may by order published in the Federal Gazette declare the office of the director or of any person employed by the Council to be
a pensionable office for the purposes of the Pensions Act.

(2) Subject to subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the Pensions Act shall, in its application by virtue of subsection (I) of this section to any office, have effect as if the of-
fice were in the public service of the Federation within the meaning of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999.

(3) For the purposes of the application of the provisions of the Pensions Act in accordance with subsection (2) of this section-

(a) subsection (I) of section 21 of that Act shall have effect as if for references to
the Minister there were substituted references to the Council; and

(b) the power under section 4 (2) of that Act, shall be exercisable by the Council
and not by any other authority.

(4) Nothing in the foregoing provisions shall prevent the appointment of a person to any office on terms which preclude the grant of a pension or gratuity in respect of service
in that office.

10. Financial provisions

(I) The Council shall establish and maintain a fund from which there shall be defrayed all expenditure incurred by the Council.

(2) There shall be paid and credited to the fund established in pursuance of subsec-
tion (I) of this section-

(a) such monies as may, from time to time, be lent or granted to the Council by the
Government of the Federation or of a State;

(b) such monies as may be granted to the Council by the Industrial Training Fund;

(c) all monies raised for the purposes of the Council by way of gifts, loans, grants-

in-aid, testamentary dispositions or otherwise;

(d) all subscriptions, fees or charges for services rendered by the Council; and

(e) all other assets that may, from time to time, accrue to the Council.

(3) The fund established under subsection (I) of this section shall be managed in ac-
cordance with rules made by the Minister; and without prejudice to the generality of the
power to make rules under this subsection, the rules shall in particular contain provi-
sions-

(a) specifying the manner in which the assets of the fund are to be held and regu-
lating the payment into and out of the fund;

(b) requiring the keeping of proper accounts and records for the purposes of the
fund in such form as may be specified in the rules;

(c) for securing that the accounts are audited periodically by an auditor appointed
from the list and in accordance with the guidelines supplied by the Auditor-
General for the Federation; and

(d) requiring copies of the accounts and of the auditor's report thereon to be fur-
nished to the President through the Minister as soon as may be after the end of
the period to which the accounts relate.

11. Power to accept gifts

(I) The Council may accept gifts of land, money or other property upon such trusts and conditions, if any, as may be specified by the person making the gift.

(2) The Council shall not accept any gift if the conditions attached by the person making the gift are inconsistent with the functions of the Council.

12. Power to borrow

The Council may, with the consent of the Minister, borrow on such terms and conditions as the Council may determine, such sums of money as the Council may require in
the exercise of the functions conferred on it under this Act.

13. Award of contracts

The Minister shall, subject to such limitations as may be imposed by the President, stipulate conditions for the award of contracts by the Council.

14. Offices and premises

(1) For the purpose of providing offices and premises necessary for the performance of its functions, the Council may-

(a) purchase or take on lease any land; and

(b) build, equip and maintain offices and premises.

(2) The Council may sell or lease any land, offices or premises held by it and no
longer required for the performance of its functions.

15. Compulsory acquisition of land

(1) For the purposes of the Land Use Act, the purposes of the Council shall be public
purposes of the Federation within the meaning of that Act.

[Cap. L5.]

(2) The Registrar of Deeds may, by an instrument under his hand and seal, vest in the
Council any property acquired pursuant to subsection (I) of this section; and the Council
shall pay into the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the Federation a sum equal to the ag-
gregate amount of the expenses (including compensation) incurred on behalf of the Fed-
eral Government by virtue of that subsection in respect of any property vested in the
Council by such an instrument.

16. Council to establish Centre for Management Development

(I) The Council shall establish as its operational arm an agency to be known as "the
Centre for Management Development" (in this Act referred to as "the Centre").

(2) The Centre shall carry out such functions as may be assigned to it by the Council
and such functions shall include-

(a) the provision for the Council of background information and other technical
data necessary for the Council's policy-making and co-ordinating functions;

(b) the provision of management advisory and consultancy services to Nigerian
enterprises;

(c) the establishment and maintenance of an up-to-date library on management
studies;

(d) the publication of journals, research papers and books on modern management
and supervisory techniques; and

(e) the sponsoring, promotion and conduct of research into all aspects of manage-
ment and allied subjects in relation to the Nigerian situation.

17. Director of the Centre

(I) There shall be a director of the Centre (in this Act referred to as "the director") who shall be appointed by the Minister after consultation with the Council.

(2) The director shall be the chief executive of the Centre and shall be charged with the general responsibility for matters affecting the day-to-day management and opera-
tions of the Centre.

18. Annual report and estimates

(1) The Council shall prepare and submit to the Minister not later than 31 July in each financial year a report on its activities during the preceding financial year and the
report shall be accompanied by a copy of the audited accounts of the Council for that period and of the auditor's report on the account.

(2) A copy of every such report together with the audited accounts shall be submitted to the President as soon as may be after the presentation thereof to the Minister.

(3) The Council shall not later than I October in each financial year or as soon there after as the Minister may in a proper case allow, submit to the Minister for approval its
estimates of revenue and expenditure in respect of the following financial year.

19. Power to require institutions to furnish information

The director may, with the approval of the Council, require the person in apparent control of any management training institution to furnish such information on any aspect
of that institution's operations as appears to the director to be necessary to enable the Council to carry out any of its functions under this Act.

20. Interpretation

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"Centre" means the Centre for Management Development referred to in section 16 of this Act;

"Council" means the Nigerian Council for Management Development established by section I of this Act;

"director" means the person appointed pursuant to section 17 of this Act;

"member" means a member of the Council and includes the chairman;

"Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibility for economic development;

"State" means a State of the Federation.

21. Short title

This Act may be cited as the Nigerian Council for Management Development Act.