1. Establishment of the Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research

(1) There is hereby established an institute to be known as the Nigerian Institute of
Social and Economic Research (in this Act referred to as "the Institute").

(2) There shall be established for the management of the affairs of the Institute a
Council to be known as the Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research Council
(in this Act referred to as "the Council") which shall be a body corporate with perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue or be sued in its corporate name.

(3) The Council shall be responsible for the determination of the overall policy of the
Institute and in particular for the financial and operational programmes of the Institute
and for ensuring implementation of such policies and programmes.

(4) The provisions of the First Schedule to this Act shall have effect with respect to
the proceedings of the Council and the other matters therein mentioned.

[First Schedule.]

2. Membership of the Council

The Council shall consist of the following members-

(a) a chairman, to be appointed by the President on the recommendation of the Minister;

(b) the Director of the Institute;

(c) the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Industries or his representative;

(d) the Director, Central Planning Office;

(e) the chief statistician, Federal Office of Statistics;

(f) the Director of Research, Central Bank of Nigeria;

(g) four scholars to be appointed by the Minister on the recommendation of the Director; and

(h) two persons to represent interests not otherwise represented in this section, to be appointed by the Minister.

3. Functions of the Council

Without prejudice to the generality of section 1 (3) of this Act, it shall be the duty of the Council-

(a) to approve the research and training programmes of the Institute;

(b) subject to section 5 (4) of this Act, to approve conditions of service of the employees of the Institute including provisions for the payment of pensions;

(c) to determine fees to be paid for research, consulting and training services offered by the Institute; and

(d) to carry out such other activities as are necessary and expedient for the full discharge of any of the functions conferred on it under or pursuant to this Act.

4. Functions of the Institute

Subject to section 3 of this Act, the Institute shall have the following functions, that is-

(a) to provide consultancy services to the Federal and State Governments, their
agencies and other organisations, in the field of economic and social development;

(b) to conduct research into the economic and social problems of the country with
a view to the application of the results thereof;

(c) to organise seminars and conferences on problems of economic and social
development in the country, whether on its own account or on behalf of the
governments of Nigeria or their agencies; and

(d) to co-operate with Nigerian universities, research institutes and other institutions in the mobilisation of the country's research potential for the
task of national development and dissemination of research findings for the use of policy makers at all levels.

5. The Director of the Institute and other staff

(1) There shall be a Director of the Institute who shall be appointed by the President
on the recommendation of the Minister.

(2) Subject to the general control of the Council, the Director shall be the chief
executive of the Institute and shall be responsible for the execution of the policy of the
Institute and the day-to-day running of the affairs of the Institute.

(3) The Council may appoint such other persons as employees of the Institute, either
by way of transfer or secondment from any of the public services or any university in the
Federation or otherwise howsoever, as it considers necessary.

(4) The remuneration and the tenure of office of the employees of the Institute (other
than the Director) shall be determined by the Council after consultation with the Federal
Civil Service Commission.

6. Power to accept gifts

(1) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, the Council may accept gifts of land,
money or other property upon such trusts and conditions, if any, as may be specified by
the person making the gift.

(2) The Council shall not accept any gift if the conditions attached by the person
making the gift are inconsistent with the functions of the Council under this Act.

7. Offices and premises

(1) For the purpose of providing offices and premises necessary for the performance
of its functions, the Council may-

(a) purchase or take on lease any land; and

(b) build, equip and maintain offices and premises.

(2) The Council may, with the approval of the Minister, sell or lease any land, offices
or premises held by it and no longer required for the performance of its functions.

8. Application of Pensions Act, etc.

(1) The Federal Civil Service Commission may by order published in the Federal
Gazette declare the office of the Director or of any person employed by the Council to be
a pensionable office for the purposes of the Pensions Act.

[Cap. P4.]

(2) Subject to subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the Pensions Act shall, in its application
by virtue of the foregoing subsection to any office, have effect as if the office
were in the public service of the Federation within the meaning of the Constitution of the
Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999.

[Cap. P4. Cap. C23.]

(3) For the purposes of the application of the provisions of the Pensions Act in accordance
with subsection (2) of this section, any power exercisable thereunder by a Minister
or other authority of the Government of the Federation, other than the power to make
regulations under section 23 thereof, is hereby vested in and shall be exercisable by the
Council and not by any other person or authority.

[Cap. P4.]

(4) Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this section shall prevent the appointment
of a person to any office on terms which preclude the grant of a pension or gratuity in
respect of service in that office.

9. Financial provisions

(1) The Council shall submit to the Minister not later than the 31st of October in each
financial year an estimate of its revenue and expenditure.

(2) The Council shall establish and maintain a fund from which there shall be de-
frayed all expenditure incurred by the Council.

(3) There shall be paid and credited to the fund established under subsection (2) of
this section-

(a) such sums as may, from time to time, be granted to the Council by the Federal
Government;

(b) all monies raised for the purposes of the Institute by way of gifts, grants-in-aid,
testamentary disposition and sales of publications; and

(c) all subscriptions, fees and charges for services rendered by the Institute and all
other sums that may accrue to the Institute from any source.

Accounts and audit

(1) The Council shall keep proper accounts and proper records in relation thereto and
shall prepare in respect of each financial year a statement of accounts in such form as the
Minister may direct.

(2) The Council shall as soon as may be after the end of the financial year to which
the accounts relate cause its accounts to be audited by qualified auditors approved by the
Minister from the list and in accordance with guidelines supplied by the Auditor-General
for the Federation.

11. Annual reports

(1) The Institute shall prepare and submit to the Minister not later than the 30th of
June in each financial year a report in such form as the Minister may direct on the activi-
ties of the Institute during the immediately preceding financial year, and shall include in
the report a copy of the audited accounts of the Institute for that year and of the auditors'
report on the accounts.

(2) The Minister shall submit the report and any recommendations made by him
thereto to the President.

Power of the Minister to give directions to the Council

The Minister may give to the Council directions of a general character or relating
generally to particular matters (but not to any individual or case) with regard to any of the
functions of the Council or the Institute under this Act, and it shall be the duty of the
Council to comply with such directions or cause them to be complied with.

13. Transitional provisions

The transitional provisions in the Second Schedule to this Act shall have effect not-
withstanding any other provisions of this Act or any provisions of the University of
Ibadan Act or statutes made thereunder.

[Second Schedule. Cap. U6.]

14. Interpretation

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"Council" means the Council established by section 1 (2) of this Act;

"Director" means the Director appointed pursuant to section 5 of this Act;
"Institute" means the Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research established by section 1(1) of this Act;

"Minister" means the Minister responsible for economic development.

15. Short title

This Act may be cited as the Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research Act.