5. Report on the College in each year

(I) The Board shall in every year furnish half-yearly reports to the Minister and while the special fund continues to operate in Nigeria, to both the representatives of the exe-
cuting agency and of the special fund, on the activities of the College, so however, that the first of such reports shall be furnished not later than 15 July, 1965, and subsequent
reports as nearly as may be on or after 15 January and 15 July in each year thereafter; and every report shall be accompanied by a copy of the audited accounts of the College, and
of the report (if any) by the auditor on the accounts as audited by him.

(2) Copies of the report when made shall be printed and submitted to the President.

6. Travelling allowances etc. to members of the board

Members of the Board shall be paid such travelling and other allowances at such rate as the Minister may, from time to time, approve, after consultation with the Minister of
the Government of the Federation charged with the responsibility for finance.

7. Advisory council

(I) There shall be for the College an advisory council consisting of not less than ten members or more than twenty members appointed, from time to time, by the Minister
from among representatives of governments, airlines and civil aviation bodies making use of the College.

(2) Meetings of the advisory council shall be convened by the principal as and when necessary, so however that the advisory council shall meet at least once in each calendar
year.

(3) It shall be the duty of the advisory council to make suggestions to the Board relative to courses of instruction provided or to be provided by the College, and to make recommendations to the Minister for the holding of conferences and meetings at the College which members of the advisory council consider suitable or necessary.

(4) The Board shall consider all suggestions offered to it by the advisory council under subsection (3) of this section and shall give effect to them as far as is practicable.

(5) Members attending a meeting of the advisory council shall appoint the chairman for the meeting and may regulate its own procedure thereat.

(6) The principal or in his absence some person nominated by him shall attend meetings of the advisory council and provide any necessary assistance of a secretarial nature
and any person attending under this subsection may take part in deliberations of the advisory council, but shall not vote on any subject.

Pensions in special cases

The Federal Civil Service Commission may by order published in the Federal Gazette declare that service with the College shall be approved service for the purposes of the
Pensions Act.

(1) Where any act, matter or thing falls to be prescribed under this Act, any such act, matter or thing may be prescribed by regulations made on behalf of the College by the
board.

(2) Regulations made under this section shall, when approved by the Minister, be published in the Federal Gazette.

10. Validation of past acts, etc.

It is declared for the avoidance of doubt that where any persons have before the commencement of this Act been appointed or have purported to act under powers, however
conferred, incidental to the acquisition of land for, or incidental to the erection, supervision or control of, the College hereby established, such persons shall be deemed always
to have been lawfully appointed, or to have validly exercised the powers, as the case may be.

11. Disposal of property of the special fund

(1) The President may, after consultation with the executing agency and of the special fund, prescribe a date not earlier than five years after the commencement of this Act
for the preparation of a schedule (in this section referred to as "the transfer schedule") of the assets in Nigeria of the special fund, and the Accountant-General of the Federation
shall, when so directed, and acting in collaboration with the executing agency, the special fund and the Board, prepare the transfer schedule accordingly; and the transfer schedule
shall be certified to, by the persons so collaborating, and a copy shall be supplied by the principal of the College to the Minister.

(2) On a day to be appointed thereafter by the Minister (hereafter in this Act referred to as "the appointed transfer day") the College shall have and may exercise administra-
tive control on behalf of the Government of the Federation over all property shown as assets in the transfer schedule, and such assets shall vest in the College accordingly.

(3) The provisions of the Second Schedule to this Act shall have effect with respect to any matter arising from the transfer by this section to the College of the assets in Nige-
ria of the special fund and with respect to the other matters mentioned in that Schedule.
[Second Schedule.]

12. Interpretation

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"appointed transfer day" means the day appointed for the purpose of section 11 of this Act for the vesting of certain property of the special fund in the College;

"approved" means approved by the Minister;

"Board" means the Board of governors under section 3 of this Act;

"College" means the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology established under section I of this Act;

"executing agency" means the International Civil Aviation Organisation acting on behalf of the special fund;

"Minister" means the Minister of the government of the Federation charged with responsibility for civil aviation;

"prescribed" means prescribed on behalf of the College with the approval of the Minister;

"principal" means the principal of the College;

"special fund" means the United Nations' Special Fund administered in Nigeria by the director of the special fund programmes in Nigeria.

13. Short title

This Act may be cited as the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology Act.