1. Short title

This Act may be cited as the Nigerian Coal Corporation Act.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"coal" includes bituminous coal, sub-bituminous coal, cannel coal, anthracite, lignite and brown coal;

"colliery activities" includes searching or boring for, winning, working or getting coal, bringing it to the surface, treating it and rendering it saleable, and includes deposiing spoil arising from working coal or from any other of the activities mentioned in these definitions;

"Corporation" means the Nigerian Coal Corporation established under the provisions of this Act;

"financial year" in relation to the Corporation means a period of twelve months beginning on the lst of January;

"functions" includes powers and duties;

"mine of coal" means a space occupied by un worked coal or excavations underground for the purposes of colliery activities, and includes a shaft or adit made for those
purposes, a coal quarry and opencast workings of coal;

"Minister" means the Minister for the time being charged with responsibility for matters relating to mines and minerals;

"to mine", with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means intentionally to win minerals and includes any operations necessary for the purpose;

"to prospect", with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means to search for minerals and includes such working as is reasonably necessary to enable the
prospector to test the mineral-bearing qualities of land, but does not include the removal of overburden from ground which can reasonably be sampled by pits not exceeding seven
feet square or by boreholes;

"welfare activities" mean activities undertaken by the Corporation in fulfilment of the policy which the Corporation is charged to carry out by paragraph (a) of subsection (3) of section 4 of this Act.

The Nigerian Coal Corporation

(l) So soon as may be after the commencement of this Act, there shall be established a corporation to be known as the Nigerian Coal Corporation.

(2) The Corporation shall consist of a chairman to be appointed by the President and the following other members, that is to say-

(a) seven persons appointed by the President being persons who, by reason of any requisite ability, experience and specialised knowledge, have skills that will enable them to make effectIve contributions to the work of the Corporation:

Provided that one of the seven persons to be appointed shall come from one of the main areas of the Corporation's activities;

(b) the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Solid Minerals Development and in his absence the Federal Director of Geological Survey; and

(c) the general manager of the Corporation.

(3) There shall be paid to members of the Corporation such salaries and allowances as may be determined by the President or, in the case of any member appointed to the
Corporation after I May 1957, by the Minister, and, on the retirement or death of any of them as to whom it may be so determined to make such provision, such pensions or gratu-
to them or to others by reference to their service as may be so determined:

Provided that-

(a) no such salary or allowances, except such allowances as may be expressly
authorised by the President, shall be paid to any person who holds an office of
profit under the State otherwise than as a member of the Corporation or as a
member of a body corporate incorporated directly by a law enacted by any
legislature in Nigeria;

(b) no such pension or gratuity shall be paid to, or by reference to the service of,
any person to whom or by reference to whom service, a pension or gratuity is
payable by the Government.

(4) The Corporation shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal, and shall have power to sue be sued in the corporate name and to acquire and
hold, and, subject to the provisions of subsection (4) of section 12 of this Act, dispose of lands for the purposes of the functions of the Corporation.

(5) The supplementary provisions contained in the First Schedule to this Act shall have effect in relation to the Corporation.

[First Schedule.]

General functions of the Corporation

(1) It shall be the duty of the Corporation-

(a) to work and win the coal in the mines of coal transferred to the Corporation
under the provisions of this Act;

(b) to work and win the coal in such other deposits as may from time to time be
made available to the Corporation under licence issued by the Minister under
the provisions of section 15 of this Act; and

(c) to make supplies of coal available of such qualities and sizes, in such quantities
and at such prices, as may seem to them best calculated to further the public
interest.

(2) The functions of the Corporation shall include the carrying on of all such activities as it may appear to the Corporation to be requisite, advantageous, or convenient for
them to carryon for or in connection with the discharge of their duties under subsection (1) of this section, and in particular, but without prejudice to the generality of this
section, the Corporation may-

(a) treat, render saleable, supply and sell coal;

(b) produce, manufacture, treat, render saleable, supply and sell products of coal,including coke;

(c) manufacture, treat, render saleable, supply, distribute and sell gas;

(d) bore for, work, win and mine clay, fire-clay, sand and limestone;

(e) manufacture, sell and distribute bricks, tiles, cement and glass;

(f) plant, maintain or grow plantations of trees and sell the timber and other products therefrom;

(g) produce or manufacture any goods which are of a kind required by the Corporation for or in connection with the working and winning of coal or any other
of their activities, or which can advantageously be produced or manufactured by the Corporation by reason of their having materials or facilities for the production or manufacture thereof in connection with the working and winning of coal or any other of their activities, and supplying and selling goods so produced or manufactured;

(h) advertise the sale of coal or of any goods produced or manufactured by them whether by way of demonstration, exhibition or otherwise;

(i) carry out research and experimental work in matters connected with the functions of the Corporation;

(j) construct, maintain and improve or subscribe towards the construction, maintenance and improvement of roads; and

(k) engage in any other activity, whether similar to those specified in this section or not, which may be sanctioned by order of the President.

(3) The policy of the Corporation shall be directed to securing, consistently with the proper discharge of their duties, under subsection (I) of this section-

(a) the safety, health and welfare of their servants, and in particular and without prejudice to the generality of this paragraph may-

(i) provide for the educational and general social welfare of their servants by building, establishing, making or supporting houses, factories,
stores, buildings, hospitals, dispensaries, schools, reading rooms, baths, parks, places of recreation and other institutions, and water, lighting,
drainage and improvement works;

(ii) encourage the establishment and development of cooperative societies by their servants; and

(b) the benefit of the practical knowledge and experience of their servants in the organisation and conduct of operations in which they are employed.

(4) The policy of the Corporation shall also be directed to securing that their revenues shall be not less than sufficient for meeting all their outgoings properly chargeable to revenue account on an average of good and bad years.

(I) There shall be an officer of the Corporation, to be known as the general manager, who shall be responsible for the execution of the policy of the Corporation and the trans-
action of its day-to-day business.

(2) The general manager shall be appointed by the Corporation with the prior approval of the Minister.

(3) The Corporation shall delegate to the general manager such of its functions as are necessary to enable him to transact efficiently the day-to-day business of the Corporation
and, for this purpose, may, from time to time, issue written instructions under the common seal.

(I) The Minister may, after consultation with the Corporation, give to the Corporation directions of a general character as to the discharge by the Corporation of its functions in
relation to matters appearing to the Minister to affect the public interest, and the Corporation shall give effect to any such directions.

(2) The Minister may, after consultation with the Corporation, give to the Corporation specific directions for the purpose of remedying any defect which may be disclosed in the
general arrangement of the Corporation for the discharge of their functions under this Act, and the Corporation shall give effect to any such directions.

(3) The Corporation shall afford to the Minister facilities for obtaining information with respect to the property and functions of the Corporation, and shall furnish him with
returns, copies of minutes of meetings, accounts and other information with respect thereto and afford to him facilities for the verification of information furnished, in such
manner and at such times as he may require.

Transfer of assets, etc., to the Corporation

As from 18 January 1951, (in this Act referred to as "the vesting day"), the assets described in the Second Schedule to this Act shall vest in the Corporation by virtue of this
section and without further assurance.

[Second Schedule.]

(I) So soon as may be after the vesting day, the Corporation shall, in respect of any moneys advanced by the Government to the Government colliery undertakings since
1 April, 1949, from loan funds to provide for working capital, create and issue to the Government debenture stock of a total nominal value equivalent to the total amount of
such advances and bearing interest at a rate to be agreed upon by and between the Government and the Corporation.

(2) So soon as may be after the vesting day, the Corporation shall, in respect of the value of any fixed assets purchased out of the general revenues of Nigeria in connection
with the transferred undertakings, create an advance account in favour of the Government of an amount to be agreed upon by and between the Government and the Corporation, and
such advance amount shall be subject to such terms as to interest and repayment as the President may, from time to time, determine.

The Corporation shall accept all liabilities of the Nigerian Government Collieries as disclosed in the balance sheet of the said Collieries made up to the close of business on
the day immediately preceding the vesting day.

10. Transfer of rights and liabilities under contracts of Government colliery undertakings Contracts such as are mentioned in the Third Schedule to this Act shall have effect in
favour of and against the Corporation as therein mentioned and to the extent therein men-
tioned as if in stead of the Government the Corporation had been named therein or had
been a party thereto.

[Third Schedule.]

11. Pending proceedings and causes of action

Any proceeding or cause of action pending or existing immediately before the vesting day by or against the Government in respect of any of the assets transferred under the
provisions of this Act, may be continued or enforced by or against the Government as if this Act had not been enacted.

12. Acquisition of land

(1) Where it is made to appear to the President by the Corporation that any land is required for the purpose of the functions of the Corporation under this Act but it is impos-
sible for the Corporation to acquire such land upon fair and reasonable terms by private treaty or agreement, the President may by order direct that proceedings be taken under the
Land Use Act for the acquisition of such land on behalf of the Government and for determining the compensation to be paid to the parties interested; and, upon the making of
such order, the land to which it relates shall be deemed to be land required for a public purpose within the meaning of the said Act.

(2) Where land has been acquired under the provisions of section (1) of this section, the President shall, upon payment to the Government by the Corporation of the moneys
due under the provisions of subsection (3) of this section, vest such land in the Corporation by means of a certificate under the land and seal of the Registrar of Deeds to the ef-
fect that the same has been made over to the Corporation, and such certificate shall confer on the Corporation the estate or interest referred to therein against all adverse or compet-
ing rights, titles, interests, trusts, claims and demands whatsoever.

(3) The compensation for such acquisition shall in the first instance be paid by the Government; but the Corporation shall refund to the Government any compensation so
paid and all expenses incidental to such acquisition incurred by the Government.

(4) The Corporation shall not alienate, demise, mortgage or charge any land vested in the Corporation under the provisions of this section without the prior approval of the

Minister.

Prospecting and mining by the Corporation

13. Certain provisions of the Minerals and Mining Act not to apply to the Corporation

The provisions of the Minerals and Mining Act and of the regulations thereunder specified in the Fourth Schedule shall not apply in relation to the activities of the Corpo-
ration.

[Cap. M 12. Fourth Schedule.]

14. Restriction on issue or grant of rights, licences and leases under the Minerals and Mining Act in relation to coal

Notwithstanding any of the provisions of the Minerals and Mining Act, on and after the commencement of this Act, no prospecting right, exclusive prospecting licence, spe-
cial exclusive prospecting licence, mining right, mining lease or special mining lease shall be issued or granted under the provisions of the said Act to any person in relation to coal,
unless notice of the particulars of the application for the same has been given to the Corporation and unless the Corporation has either expressed to the appropriate authority their
inability to undertake the functions in respect to which the application is made or, within such time as the appropriate authority may deem reasonable, failed to satisfy the appro-
priate authority of the ability to undertake such functions.

[Cap M 12. 1998 No. 26.]

(2) For the purposes of this section, the "appropriate authority" means, in case of a prospecting right, the Chief Inspector of Mines, and in any other case, the Minster.

15. Prospecting and mining by the Corporation under license from the President

Notwithstanding any of the provisions of the Minerals and Mining Act, it shall be lawful for the Corporation to prospect for or mine coal under the terms and conditions of a
licence issued in that behalf by the President who is hereby empowered to issue, from time to time, such licences as are in his opinion requisite for the proper discharge by the
Corporation of its duties under paragraph (b) of subsection (I) of section 4 of this Act.

16. Prospecting

(I) Subject to the provisions of section 17 of this Act, and of subsection (2) of this section, the Corporation may, when engaged in prospecting under a licence issued under
section 15 of this Act, enter by its servants or agent with all necessary assistance upon any land within the territory to which the licence relates, and may-

(a) sink shafts or wells and dig or bore adits, holes or trenches;

(b) take and have samples of all minerals;

(c) erect and maintain such machinery and plant and construct such ways as may be necessary for or in connection with such prospecting;

(d) construct camps and take timber (other than protected trees) and water from any lake or watercourse (not the subject of a water licence granted under the
provisions of the Minerals and Mining Act) for domestic purposes or for the purposes of prospecting.

(2) Before beginning prospecting operations on any land, the Corporation shall give notice of their intention so to do to the Chief Inspector of Mines and to the secretary of
the local government of the local government area in which the land is situated and to the owner and the occupier of the land where practicable.

17. Prospecting right, etc., under the Minerals and Mining Act

For the avoidance of doubt and notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, the Minister may grant any of the rights, licences and leases under the Minerals and Mining Act to
any person, other than the Corporation, for the prospecting and mining of the minerals referred to in this Act.

18. Lands excluded from prospecting and mining

(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 15 of this Act, the Corporation shall not carry out any prospecting or mining operations on land of any of the descriptions follow-
ing, that is-

(a) land set apart for, or used for or appropriate or dedicated to, any public pur-
pose (other than mining), without the prior consent of the Minister;

(b) land included within the area of an oil pipeline licence granted under the Oil
Pipelines Act, without the consent of the Minister as defined in section 2 of
that Act;

(c) land situate within any township or government station, without the prior con-
sent of the owner or holder of the surface rights and of the Minister;

(d) land appropriate for any railway or situate within 91.44 metres of any railway,
without the prior consent in writing of the President and subject to such condi-
tions as the President may prescribe; or

(e) land which is the site of, or is within 45.72 metres of, any government or public
building, reservoir, dam, public road or tramway, without the prior consent in
writing of the Governor of the State concerned (or in the case of any such
property which is a responsibility of the Government of the Federation, without
the prior consent of the President) and subject to such conditions as the Gover-
nor (or the President, as the case may be) may prescribe;

(f) land which is held to be sacred, or upon which there is situate anything which
is an object of veneration, according to local custom.

(2) If any question arises under paragraph (j) of subsection (1) of this section as to whether any land is sacred or whether anything is an object of veneration, such question
shall be decided by the Governor of the State or the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, in the case ofthe Federal Capital territory, whose decision shall be final.

(3) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to place any restriction upon prospecting or running operations by the Corporation beneath any land or a description mentioned in

subsectlon 1) o~ thls sect!on, but the eorporat!on shall take all reasonable steps to carry out such operations without interference with surface rights.

19. Underground wayleaves

In the discharge of its functions, the Corporation may make and use below the surface of any lands the subject of a licence issued under section IS of this Act, such adits, drifts,
tunnels, shafts and airways, and generally do and perform all such other acts and things beneath the surface of such lands as they shall find necessary or convenient for the pur-
pose of the discharge of such functions.

20. Compensation for disturbance of surface rights

(1) The Corporation shall pay to the owner or occupier of any private land or the occupier of land held under a State lease or the subject of a right of occupancy, such sums as
may be a fair and reasonable compensation for any disturbance of the surface rights of such owner or occupier and for any damage done to the surface of the land upon which
any prospecting or mining is being or has been carried on, and shall in addition pay to the owners of any crops, economic trees, buildings or works damaged, removed or destroyed
by the Corporation or by any agent or servant of the Corporation compensation for such damage, removal or destruction.

(2) The Corporation shall not be liable to pay compensation to any such owner or occupier in respect of any underground workings of the Corporation unless such under-
ground workings have caused damage of a character mentioned in subsection (1) of this section.

(3) For the purpose of this section-

"private land" means any land in respect of which a person is entitled to exercise aright of occupancy under the Land Use Act;

"economic trees" means trees which are for the time being declared to be protected trees under any Forestry Law and all trees within a forest reserve.

21. Determination of amount of compensation

(I) The amount of the compensation payable under the provisions of section 20 of this Act shall be determined by agreement between the parties, or if the parties are unable
to reach agreement, by the secretary of the local government, who after consultation with the parties shall, as soon as practicably possible, assess and determine the amount of the
compensation payable at the date of such assessment and shall notify the parties of the sum awarded.

(2) The decision of such officer shall be final, unless any of the parties desires that the matters in dispute be determined by arbitration.

(3) Notice of such appeal shall be given to the officer concerned within fourteen days of the date on which his decision is notified to the party desiring to appeal.

(4) The Government of the State may direct that, in such areas as he may specify, an administrative officer shall negotiate on behalf of any person or community to whom
compensation may be due.

Financial provisions

22. Application of revenue and grant reserve fund

(I) The revenues of the Corporation shall be applied in defraying the following charges-

(a) the salaries, allowances, pensions and gratuities of or in respect of the services
of members of the Corporation;

(b) the salaries, fees, remuneration, superannuation, allowances and gratuities of
servants, agents and technical or other advisers of the Corporation;

(c) expenditure incurred by the Corporation in connection with the discharge of
any of its functions properly chargeable to revenue account;

(d) any interest on any stock issued or temporary loan raised by the Corporation;
and

(e) such minor works of a capital nature as the Corporation may deem necessary
from time to time.

(2) The Corporation shall create a general reserve fund, and the Minister may, from time to time, determine the maximum amount which may at anyone time stand to the
credit of such fund.

23. Power to issue debenture stock for certain purposes

(1) The Corporation may, from time to time, and with the approval of the Minister, borrow money or raise capital by the issue of debenture stock upon such terms touching
the issue, transfer, interest and redemption as may be approved by the Minister for all or any of the following purposes-

(a) the provision of working capital;

(b) the fulfilling of the functions of the Corporation under this Act;

(c) the redemption of any stock which they are required or entitled to redeem;

(d) any other expenditure properly chargeable to capital account.

(2) The Government may guarantee, in such manner and on such conditions as it may think fit, the redemption or repayment of, and the payment of any interest on, any debenture stock issued by or any temporary loan raised by the Corporation.

24. Power to borrow money

The Corporation may, with the consent of or in accordance with any general authority given by the Minister, borrow by way of loan, overdraft or otherwise such sums as it may
require for meeting its obligations and discharging its functions under this Act, and the moneys aforesaid may be borrowed from the Government or from such other person and
upon such terms and conditions as may be approved by the Minister.

25. Investment of funds

The Corporation may invest all or any portion of the monies of the Corporation in such manner as may be approved by the Minister.

Accounts and reports

26. Accounts and audit

(I) The Corporation shall keep proper accounts and other records in relation thereto and shall prepare in respect of each financial year a statement of accounts.

(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by auditors to be appointed annually by the Corporation from the list of auditors and in accordance with guidelines sup-
plied by the Auditor-General for the Federation.

(3) As soon as the accounts of the Corporation have been audited, the Corporation shall dispatch a copy of the statement of accounts to the Minister together with a copy of
any report made by the auditors on that statement or on the accounts of the Corporation.

(4) The Minister shall lay a copy of every such statement and report before each House of the National Assembly.

27. Annual report and periodical returns

(I) The Corporation shall, as soon as possible after the end of each financial year, make to the Minister a report dealing generally with the activities of the Corporation dur-
ing that year.

(2) The Minister shall lay a copy of every such annual report before each House of the National Assembly.

(3) The Corporation shall furnish to the Minister such financial and statistical returns as he may, from time to time, require.

Provisions relating to staff

28. Employment of servants and agents

The Corporation shall employ such servants and agents as it may think necessary for the due discharge of its functions under this Act, upon such terms as to remuneration or
otherwise as it may determine.

29. Corporation empowered to establish pension schemes

(I) It shall be lawful for the Corporation to establish a scheme or schemes for the payment of pensions, superannuation allowances or gratuities to servants on the estab-
lishment of the Corporation who become incapable of discharging their duties by reason of permanent infirmity of body or mind or of old age or upon their resigning or otherwise
ceasing to serve the Corporation, and to the dependants of such servants who die while in the service of the Corporation.

(2) Any pension scheme established by the Corporation under the provisions of sub- section (I) of this section shall be such as to make it possible for service with the Corpo-
ration to be regarded as approved service under the provisions of the written law relating to pensions of officers of the Government in force at the time the scheme is established.

30. Corporation empowered to exercise functions through servants and agents

The Corporation may exercise any of its functions under this Act by or through any servant or agent authorised in that behalf by the Corporation.

31. Transitory provisions relating to government officers

(I) Officers on the established staff of the Government who are employed in any Government colliery undertaking immediately before the vesting day shall be seconded
from the service of the Government to the service of the Corporation.

(2) Subject to such limitation upon their periods of service as may be provided by their existing terms of service as government officers, and subject to the provisions of
subsection (6) of this section, the period for which such officers are seconded shall, in the first instance, be a period of two years reckoned from the vesting day.

(3) The Corporation shall within the period aforesaid offer to each such officer who is still seconded to the service of the Corporation employment by the Corporation upon such
terms and conditions as the Corporation may determine.

(4) Where an officer accepts the terms and conditions offered, his service with the Government shall cease from the date of acceptance.

(5) The Corporation may, from time to time, with the approval of the Federal Civil Service Commission or of the State Civil Service Commission, as the case may be, and
the consent of the officer concerned, extend any period for which an officer is seconded upon terms to be agreed between such Civil Service Commission, the Corporation and the
officer.

(6) The Corporation may at any time by notice in writing to the Federal Civil Service Commission or of the State Civil Service Commission, as the case may be, and to the of-
ficer concerned terminate the secondment of an officer.

Miscellaneous provisions

32. Provisions relating to taxes, etc.

(I) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other enactment, the income tax payable upon the chargeable income of the Corporation shall be calculated at the rate for the
time being prescribed by the Companies Income Tax Act.

(2) Except as is provided in subsection (1) of this section, nothing in this Act shall be deemed to exempt the Corporation from liability for any tax, duty or rate, whether general
or local.

33. Power to vary the First Schedule

The Minister may, by order, add to or delete from or amend the provisions contained in the First Schedule to this Act.

[First Schedule.]