1. Import duty tariff rebate for special products imported into the free zone

As from the commencement of this Order, any special product imported into the free
zone under the Act-

(a) on which value has been added without changing the essential character of the
product after processing in the free zone; and

(b) intended for the customs territory,

shall be granted an import duty tariff rebate of 75 percent.

2. Interpretation

In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires-

"Act" means the Oil and Gas Export Free Zones Act, 1996;

"customs territory" means the territory within the Federal Republic of Nigeria other
than the area designated as the oil and gas free zone under the Act;

"free zone" means the oil and gas free zone designated under the Oil and Gas Export
Free Zone Act;

"special product" means any article or item imported into the free zone on
which value has been added without changing the essential character of the product after
processing;

"value" means any additional process added on a product.

3. Citation

This Order may be cited as the Oil and Gas Export Free Zone (Special Import Provi-
sions) Order 2003.

OIL AND GAS EXPORT FREE ZONE REGULATIONS, 2003

ARRANGEMENT OF REGULATIONS

PART I

Administration and Powers of the Free Zone

REGULATION

1. Functions of the Free Zone Authority.

12. Applicable laws.

13. Arbitration and settlement of disputes.

14. Legal proceedings.

15. Restriction on non-Nigerian employee.
16. Health, safety and environmental control.

PART II

Procedures for Importing, Exporting and Movement of Goods

REGULATION

PART III

Licensing of Business Entities within the Free Zone

PART IV

Free Zone Enterprises Procedures

PART V

Banking Procedures
47. Banking activities in the Free Zone.

PART VI

Health, Safety and Environment

48. Management of health, safety and environmental matters within the Free Zone.

PART VII

Planning and Construction Procedures
49. Acquisition of land.

PART VIII

Miscellaneous

REGULATION

OIL AND GAS EXPORT FREE ZONE REGULATIONS, 2003
[S.1. 12 of2003.]

[5th December, 2003]

[ Commencement.]

PART I

Administration and Powers of the Free Zone

Functions of the Free Zone Authority

The Administration of the Free Zone is vested in the Authority, which in exercise of
its functions shall have power to delegate some of its functions as it may, from time to
time, determine.