1. Levy of terminal dues, etc.
(1) As from the date of commencement of this Act, terminal dues may be levied,
subject to the provisions of this Act and the Nigerian Ports Authority Act, on any ship
evacuating oil at any oil terminal and in respect of any services or facilities provided un-
der this Act.
[Cap. NI26.]
(2) The following persons shall be liable to pay any terminal dues levied pursuant to
subsection (1) of this section, that is-
(a) the master or owner of the ship;
(b) every consignor or agent who shall have paid or made himself liable to pay
any dues on account of such ship,
but, when any terminal dues are paid by any person who is not the master or owner of the
ship, that person may retain, out of monies in his hands received on account of such ship
or her owner, the amount of the dues paid by him together with reasonable expenses in-
curred by reason of such payment or liability.
(3) The master of any ship arriving in, or applying for the clearance of a ship out-
wards from an oil terminal shall produce to the Nigerian Ports Authority-
(a) the ship's register and the ship's papers;
(b) a list containing the name of the consignee of the oil intended to be evacuated;

and
(c) such other particulars as the Authority may require, including the kind and
quantity of oil to be evacuated, and the particulars required in the foregoing
provisions of this subsection shall be delivered to such officer of the Authority
and on such forms as may be prescribed.
(4) The Authority may either alone or with any other person enter into any ship
evacuating oil in order to ascertain the dues payable in respect of the ship and may for
that purpose determine the quantity of the oil in respect of which terminal dues are to be
paid and may, if necessary, detain such ship until the dues have been ascertained or the
quantity of the oil otherwise determined.
(5) Where the quantity of oil determined in accordance with subsection (4) of this
section is more than that shown by the particulars delivered in accordance with subsec-
tion (3) of this section, the expenses incurred in determining the amount of oil shall be
paid to the Authority by the master of the ship, and shall be recoverable in the same man-
ner as dues leviable under this section.
(6) Where the master of any ship in respect of which any terminal dues are payable
refuses or neglects to pay such dues on demand, the provisions of sections 75 to 77 of the
Nigerian Ports Authority Act (which provide the remedies for the recovery of dues) or
such provisions as may be prescribed shall apply in relation to the recovery of terminal
dues payable under this section as they apply in relation to the recovery of dues and rates
payable under Part XI of that Act.
[Cap. N 126.]
2. Provision of navigational services and facilities
(1) It shall be the duty of the Authority to provide such navigational services or ex-
tend such facilities for the purposes of this Act as may be necessary or expedient to serve
the public interest in accordance with the requirements of the provisions of the Conven-
tion.
(2) Such navigational services may include the installation of position-fixing system,
navigational aids, and the setting up of sea lanes for the purposes of removing any navi-
gational hazards.
(3) In this subsection-
(a) "position-fixing system" means such system of hyperbolic navigation which
operates automatically and continuously, and which depends on time signals
sent out from a series, that is to say, chains of master and slave stations, for the
purpose of enabling any mariner to obtain the position of his ship, and of aid-
ing navigation, with a very high degree of accuracy; and
(b) "navigational aids" include objects on shore or afloat or instruments, such as
light-houses, lightships, buoys, beacons, radio/radar and radar equipment,
which assist in the safe passage of ships or enable ships to ascertain their posi-
tions at sea in relation to these aids.
(4) The facilities which the Authority may provide may include berthing, towing,
mooring, or moving of ships in or around any oil terminal for the purposes of evacuating
oil from the terminal including the establishment of safety zones, and the Authority may
in respect of such services levy ships' dues on such ships.
(5) Sections 7 and 8 of the Nigerian Ports Authority Act (which relate to the duties of
the Authority) shall apply, and shall be construed with such modifications as may be nec-
essary, and notwithstanding the generality of the foregoing, the references in those provi-
sions to "navigational services" and "port facilities" are references to the services and
facilities prescribed under the foregoing provisions of this section.
[Cap. N 126.]
3. Application of certain other provisions of the Nigerian Ports Authority Act
Subject to the provisions of this Act, the provisions of the Nigerian Ports Authority
Act specified in column 1 of the First Schedule of this Act shall apply in relation to any
oil terminal and to the extent mentioned in column 3 of that Schedule as they apply in
relation to a port or any approaches thereto, and as if references in that Act to "a port or
any approaches thereto" were references to an "oil terminal or any area within which the
terminal is situated".
[Cap. N126. First Schedule.]

4. Appointment or designation of officers, etc., of the Authority
The Authority may for the purposes of this Act appoint or designate any officer, ser-
vant or agent of the Authority for the purposes of discharging any of its functions under
this Act.
5. Power to apply or extend regulations made under the Nigerian Ports Authority
Act
The Minister may by regulations extend any regulations made by the Minister or by
the Authority under the Nigerian Ports Authority Act for the maintenance, control and
management of anything to which the Act relates, and in particular, apply section 71 of
the Nigerian Ports Authority Act (which relates to the power of the authority to make
regulations for the levy of dues and rates) or extend any regulations made pursuant to that
section for the purposes of this Act, and any regulations as so extended or applied shall
be of the same effect as if made under this Act.
[Cap. NI26.]
6. Discharge of oil at an oil terminal
(1) So much of section 3 of the Oil in Navigable Waters Act as relate to the discharge
of oil or mixture containing oil into the territorial waters of Nigeria from any vessel or
apparatus used for transferring oil to any vessel shall, subject to the following provisions
of this section, apply in relation to the area within which any oil terminal is situated, if
situated outside the limits of the territorial waters, as they apply in relation to the whole
of the sea within the seaward limits of the territorial waters.
[Cap. 06.]
(2) If any oil or mixture containing oil is discharged into any part of the sea referred
to in subsection (1) of this section-
(a) from a pipe-line or any apparatus used for the purposes of transferring oil from
or to a vessel;
(b) from a vessel; or
(c) as a result of any operation for evacuating oil,
the owner of the pipe-line or the owner of the vessel or the person in charge of the opera-
tion, as the case may be, is guilty of an offence under section 3 of the Oil in Navigable
Waters Act (as applied by this section).
(3) Any person found guilty of an offence as aforesaid shall on conviction be liable to
the same penalty as provided by section 6 of the Oil in Navigable Waters Act, and the
special defences prescribed under section 4 thereof shall apply in relation to such of-
fences as they apply for the purposes of that Act.
(4) The operation of the foregoing provisions of this section is without prejudice to
the operation of any other provision of the Oil in Navigable Waters Act in so far as it
applies in relation to any area within which there is situated any oil terminal, and effect
shall be given to the provisions of that Act, accordingly.
(5) In this section, "oil" has the meaning given in section 20 of the Oil in Navigable
Waters Act.
[Cap. 06.] .
7. Restriction on installation of oil terminals
(1) As from the date of publication of this Act, an oil terminal-
(a) shall not be installed by any person, except-
(i) by or under the authority of a licence or lease granted under Minerals
and Mining Act; and
[Cap. M 12.]
(ii) subject to the express approval in writing of the Minister of Petroleum
Resources,
and any subsequent operation of such terminal by any person shall be in compliance with
the requirements of this Act and such conditions as may be prescribed;
(b) shall-

cease to be operated by that person until the said conditions have been duly complied
with.
(2) For the purposes of this Act-
(a) every oil terminal; and
(b) the area within which the terminal is situated,
shall be established geographically with precise co-ordinates by an order published in the
Federal Gazette by the Minister of Petroleum Resources.
(3) In this section-
(a) "oil terminal" means an oil-loading terminal, pumping or booster station, or
other installation (or structure associated with a terminal, including its storage
facilities), other than a terminal situated within "a port or any approaches
thereto" within the meaning of the Nigerian Ports Authority Act;
[Cap. NI26.]
(b) the reference to the area within which the terminal is situated includes a refer-
ence to--
(i) the area of the territorial waters;
(ii) the area of the superjacent waters of the continental shelf,
and the space above or below an area within which the oil terminal is situated (including
the sea-bed and sub-soil of submarine area) shall be deemed to be part of the area, and
sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii) of this paragraph shall be so construed.
(4) Any person who contravenes subsection (l) of this section shall be guilty of an
offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a tine of four thousand naira for each day on
which the offence occurs.
8. Application of laws
(l) Subject to this Act, the provisions of the laws in force in Nigeria (apart from
those specifically applied or extended by or under this Act) and as in force from time to
time, and the provisions of any instrument made under any of those laws, shall apply in
the area of the sea within which the oil terminal is situated.
(2) The provisions referred to in subsection (1) of this section apply to and in relation
to all acts, matters, circumstances and things touching, concerning, or connected with the
oil terminal or arising from its operations or connected with the storage or pumping of oil
from such terminal, and not otherwise, and so apply as if that area were part of the Fed-
eral Republic of Nigeria.
(3) This section does not-
(a) extend to the provisions of any law or instrument-
(i) in so far as they are incapable of application in the area of the sea
within which such terminal is situated;
(ii) in so far as they are expressed, or by necessary implication, not to ex-
tend to or apply in that area;
(b) affect the operation that any law has apart from this section;
(c) apply to the provisions of any law or instrument that is applicable only in a
State and within the authority of the government of the State.
(4) For the avoidance of doubt, sections 2 and 3 of the Territorial Waters Act (which
relate to jurisdiction and restriction on trial of offences committed within the territorial
waters of Nigeria) apply, in relation to offences committed under this Act (or any other
enactment or instrument applied or extended by or under this Act, whether or not such
offences are committed within the territorial waters) as they apply in respect of trial of
offences committed within the territorial waters.
[Cap. T5.]
(5) Any provision applied or extended by or under this Act shall have effect with any
necessary modifications and omissions.
9. Application of this Act
(i) if in operation on the date of publication of this Act; and
(ii) unless such person complies with such conditions as may be
prescribed for the payment of dues and fees within such period (or any
extension of that period) as the Minister may in his discretion
determine,

This Act applies to all natural persons, whether Nigerian citizens or not, and whether
resident in Nigeria or not, and to all corporations, whether incorporated or carrying on
business in Nigeria or not.
10. Regulations
Without prejudice to any other power to make regulations conferred by this Act and
subject to the provisions of this Act, provisions may be made by regulations by the Min-
ister-
(a) for prescribing anything to be prescribed under this Act;
(b) for the purposes of doing anything that is required to be done under this Act;
and
(c) for providing that any provisions referred to in subsection (1) or excluded by
subsection (3) of section 8 of this Act that are specified in the regulations do
not apply by reasons of this section or apply with prescribed modifications
only.
11. Interpretation
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, the following expressions have the
meanings hereby assigned to them respectively, that is-
"Authority" means the Nigerian Ports Authority as constituted under section 1 of the
Nigerian Ports Authority Act;
[Cap. N126.]
"Convention" means the Convention entitled "Convention on the Continental Shelf',
signed at Geneva on the 29th April, 1958, being the Convention, of which Nigeria is a
party, and a copy of which in the English language is set out in the Second Schedule to
this Act;
"master" has the meaning given in section 127 of the Nigerian Ports Authority Act;
[Cap. N126.]
"Minister" means the Minister of Transport;
"oil" means crude oil of any description, liquefied petroleum gas or liquefied natural
gas;
"oil terminal" has the meaning given in section 7 of this Act, and any other reference
in this Act to the area within which an oil terminal is situated shall be construed as pre-
scribed in that section;
"continental shelf" means the continental shelf, within the meaning of the Conven-
tion, adjacent to the coast of the Federal Republic of Nigeria;
"ship" has the meaning given in section 127 of the Nigerian Ports Authority Act; and
[Cap. N126.]
"terminal dues" means such dues as may be levied under this Act on any ship evacu-
ating oil at any oil terminal;
"territorial waters" means the territorial waters of Nigeria within the meaning of the
Territorial Waters Act.
[Cap. T5.]
12. Short title, etc.
This Act may be cited as the Oil Terminal Dues Act.