1. Patentable inventions
(1) Subject to this section, an invention is patentable--
(a) if it is new, results from inventive activity and is capable of industrial applica-
tion; or
(b) if it constitutes an improvement upon a patented invention and also is new,
results from inventive activity and is capable of industrial application.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) of this section—
(a) an invention is new if it does not form part of the state of the art;
(b) an invention results from inventive activity if it does not obviously follow
from the state of the art, either as to the method, the application, the combina-
tion of methods, or the product which it concerns, or as to the industrial result
it produces; and
(c) an invention is capable of industrial application if it can be manufactured or
used in any kind of industry, including agriculture.
(3) In subsection (2) of this section, "the art" means the art or field of knowledge to
which an invention relates and "the state of the art" means everything concerning that art
or field of knowledge which has been made available to the public anywhere and at any

time whatever (by means of a written or oral description, by use or in any other way) be-
fore the date of the filing of the patent application relating to the invention or the foreign
priority date validly claimed in respect thereof, so however that an invention shall not be
deemed to have been made available to the public merely by reason of the fact that,
within the period of six months preceding the filing of a patent application in respect of
the invention, the inventor or his successor in title has exhibited it in an official or offi-
cially recognised international exhibition.
(4) Patents cannot be validly obtained in respect of-
(a) plant or animal varieties, or essentially biological processes for the production
of plants or animals (other than microbiological processes and their products);
or
(b) inventions the publication or exploitation of which would be contrary to public
order or morality (it being understood for the purposes of this paragraph that
the exploitation of an invention is not contrary to public order or morality
merely because its exploitation is prohibited by law).
(5) Principles and discoveries of a scientific nature are not inventions for the pur-
poses of this Act.
2. Right to patent
(l) Subject to this section, the right to a patent in respect of an invention is vested in
the statutory inventor, that is to say, the person who, whether or not he is the true inven-
tor, is the first to file, or validly to claim a foreign priority for, a patent application in re-
spect of the invention.
(2) The true inventor is entitled to be named as such in the patent, whether or not he
is also the statutory inventor, and the entitlement in question shall not be modifiable by
contract.
(3) If the essential elements of a patent application have been obtained by the pur-
ported applicant from the invention of another person (or from that other person's succes-
sor in title) without the consent of that other person (or his said successor) both to the
obtaining of those essential elements and to the filing of the application, all rights in the
application and in any patent granted in pursuance of it shall be deemed to be transferred
to that other person or his said successor, as the case may be.
(4) Where an invention is made in the course of employment or in the execution of a
contract for the performance of specified work, the right to a patent in the invention is
vested in the employer or, as the case may be, in the person who commissioned the work:
Provided that, where the inventor is an employee, then--
(a) if-
(i) his contract of employment does not require him to exercise any in-
ventive activity but he has in making the invention used data or means
that his employment has put at his disposal; or
(ii) the invention is of exceptional importance,
he is entitled to fair remuneration taking into account his salary and the im-
portance of the invention; and

(b) the entitlement in question is not modifiable by contract and may be enforced
by civil proceedings.
(5) A person is not an inventor for the purposes of this section if he has merely as-
sisted in doing work connected with the development of an invention without contribut-
ing any inventive activity.
3. Patent applications
(1) Every patent application--
(a) shall be made to the registrar and shall contain--
(i) the applicant's full name and address and, if that address is outside
Nigeria, an address for service in Nigeria;
(ii) a description of the relevant invention with any appropriate plans and
drawings;
(iii) a claim or claims; and
(iv) such other matter as may be prescribed; and
(b) shall be accompanied by-
(i) the prescribed fees;
(ii) where appropriate, a declaration signed by the true inventor requesting
that he be mentioned as such in the patent and giving his name and ad-
dress; and
(iii) if the application is made by an agent, a signed power of attorney (so
however that, notwithstanding any rule of law, legalisation or certifica-
tion of the signature of the power of attorney shall be unnecessary).
(2) The description referred to in subsection (l) (a) (ii) of this section shall disclose
the relevant invention in a manner sufficiently clear and complete for the invention to be
put into effect by a person skilled in the art or field of knowledge to which the invention
relates; and the claim or claims referred to in subsection (1) (a) (iii) of this section shall
define the protection sought and shall not go beyond the limits of the said description.
(3) A patent application shall relate to only one invention, but may include in con-
nection with that invention--
(a) claims--
(i) for any number of products;
(ii) for any number of manufacturing processes for those products; and
(iii) for any number of applications of those products; and
(b) claims--
(i) for any number of processes; and
(ii) for the means of working those processes, for the resulting product or
products and for the application of those products.
(4) Where the applicant for a patent seeks to avail himself of a foreign priority in re-
spect of an earlier application made in a country outside Nigeria--
(a) he shall append to his application under subsection (1) of this section a written
declaration showing-

(i) the date and number of the earlier application;
(ii) the country in which the earlier application was made; and
(iii) the name of the person who made the earlier application; and
(b) not more than three months after the making of the application under subsec-
tion (1) of this section, he shall furnish the registrar with a copy of the earlier
application certified correct by the Industrial Property Office (or its equivalent)
in the country where the earlier application was made.
4. Examination of application and grant of patent
(1) The registrar shalt examine every patent application as to its conformity with sub-
sections (1), (3) and (4) of section 3 of this Act, and--
(a) if subsection (1) of section 3 of this Act has not been complied with, the regis-
trar shalt reject the application;
(b) if subsection (3) of section 3 of this Act has not been complied with, the regis-
trar shall--
(i) invite the applicant to restrict the application so that it relates to only
one invention; and
(ii) notify the applicant that he may within three months file in respect of
the other inventions dealt with in the original application subsidiary
applications which shall benefit from the date of filing of the original
application and, if relevant, from the date of any foreign priority
claimed under subsection (4) of section 3 of this Act, and, if the appli-
cant does not comply with the invitation mentioned in sub-para-
graph (i) of this subsection, shall reject the application; and
(c) if subsection (4) of section 3 of this Act has not been complied with, the regis-
trar shall disregard any claim for foreign priority.
(2) Where the examination mentioned in subsection (1) of this subsection shows that
a patent application satisfies the requirements of subsections (1) and (3) of section 3 of
this Act, the patent shall be granted as applied for without further examination and, in
particular, without examination of the quesrions-s-
(a) whether the subject of the application is patentable under section I of this Act;
(b) whether the description and claims satisfy the requirements of subsection (2)
of section 3 of this Act; and
(c) whether a prior application, or an application benefiting from a foreign prior-
ity, has been made in Nigeria in respect of the same invention, and whether a
patent has been granted as a result of such an application.
(3) Where the said examination shows that subsection (4) of section 3 of this Act has
been complied with as respects a claim for a foreign priority, the foreign priority claimed
shalt be mentioned in the patent.
(4) Patents are granted at the risk of the patentee and without guarantee of their va-
lidity.

Form of grant, registration and publication
(1) A patent shall be granted by issue to the patentee of a document containing-
(a) the number of the patent in the order of grant;
(b) the name and address of the patentee and, if that address is outside Nigeria, an
address for service in Nigeria;
(c) the dates of the patent application and the grant;
(d) if foreign priority is claimed--
(i) an indication of the fact; and
(ii) the number and date of the application on which the claim is based and
the name of the country where it was made;
(e) the description of the invention (with any relevant plans and drawings) and the
claims; and
(f) where appropriate, the name and address of the true inventor.
(2) The registrar shall maintain a Register of Patents which shall consist of duplicates
of the documents issued under subsection (1) of this section, together with such further
matter as is required by this Act to be registered.
(3) As soon as may be after a patent has been granted under subsection (1) of this
section, the registrar shall cause to be published--
(a) a notification of the grant containing the details mentioned in paragraphs (a) to
(f) of that subsection (except the description and the plans and drawings, if
any); or
(b) if a summary form of notification is prescribed, a notification in that form.
6. Rights conferred by patent
(1) A patent confers upon the patentee the right to preclude any other person from
doing any of the following acts---
(a) where the patent has been granted in respect of a product, the act of making,
importing, selling or using the product, or stocking it for the purpose of sale or
use; and
(b) where the patent has been granted in respect of a process, the act of applying
the process or doing, in respect of a product obtained directly by means of the
process, any other acts mentioned in paragraph (a) of this subsection.
(2) The scope of the protection conferred by a patent shall be determined by the
terms of the claims; and the description (and the plans and drawings, if any) included in
the patent shall be used to interpret the claims.
(3) The rights under a patent-
(a) shall extend only to acts done for industrial or commercial purposes; and
(b) shall not extend to acts done in respect of a product covered by the patent after the
product has been lawfully sold in Nigeria, except in so far as the patent makes provision for a
special application of the product, in which case the

special application shall continue to be reserved to the patentee notwithstand-
ing this paragraph.
(4) Where, at the date of the filing of a patent application in respect of a product or
process or at the date of a foreign priority validly claimed in respect of the application, a
person other than the applicant-
(a) was conducting an undertaking in Nigeria; and
(b) in good faith and for the purposes of the undertaking, was manufacturing the
product or applying the process or had made serious preparations with a view
to doing so,
then, notwithstanding the grant of a patent, there shall exist a right (exercisable by the
person for the time being conducting the undertaking, and not otherwise) to continue the
manufacture or application, or to continue and complete the preparation, and thereafter
undertake the manufacture or application, as the case may be, and in respect of any re-
sulting products to do any other act mentioned in subsection (1) of this section.
7. Duration and lapse of patent
(1) Subject to this Act, a patent shall expire at the end of the twentieth year from the
date of the filing of the relevant patent application.
(2) A patent shall lapse if the prescribed annual fees are not duly paid in respect of it:
Provided that-
(a) a period of grace of six months shall be allowed for the payment of the fees;
and
(b) if the fees and any prescribed surcharge are paid within that period, the patent
shall continue as if the fees had been duly paid.
(3) The expiration or lapse of a patent shall be registered and notified.
8. Surrender of patent
(1) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, a patent may be surrendered by the paten-
tee by written declaration addressed to the registrar.
(2) The surrender of a patent--
(a) may relate to all or any of the claims made by the patent;
(b) subject to paragraph (d) of this subsection, shall be registered and notified;
(c) shall not be effective until it has been registered; and
(d) if it relates to a patent as to which a contractual licence or licence of right is
registered, shall be registered only if it is accompanied by the written consent
of the licensee.
9. Nullity of patent
(1) Subject to this section, on the application of any person (including a public officer
acting in the exercise of his functions) the court shall declare a patent null and void--
(a) if the subject of the patent is not patentable under section 1 of this Act; or

(b) if the description of the invention or the claim does not conform with subsec-
tion (2) of section 3 of this Act; or
(c) if for the same invention a patent has been granted in Nigeria as the result of a
prior application or an application benefiting from an earlier foreign priority.
(2) Subsection (1) of this section may apply to the whole of a patent or to any par-
ticular claim or claims made by it.
(3) For the purpose of disposing of an application under subsection (1) of this sec-
tion, the court on the motion of the applicant or of its own motion may require the paten-
tee of the relevant patent to produce in evidence any of the following--
(a) a list of any publications or earlier patents referred to in connection with a pat-
ent application made in respect of the same invention by the patentee to the
appropriate authority in any country outside Nigeria;
(b) any proceedings relating to the patent application in question or any patent
granted in pursuance of it; and
(c) any publications or patents mentioned in any report sent to the patentee by a
governmental or intergovernmental research or investigation institute.
(4) Where a declaration is made under subsection (1) of this sectiorr-
(a) the patent in question shall be deemed to have been null and void since the
date of its grant, so however that it shall not be necessary to repay royalties
paid by any licensee unless the court so orders; and
(b) the proper officer of the court shall inform the registrar, who shall register and
notify the declaration.
(5) The court -
(a) shall not make a declaration under subsection (l) of this section without first
giving the patentee an opportunity to be heard;
(b) in applying subsection (1) of this section, shall have regard only to the state of
affairs existing when the proceedings were instituted; and
(c) shall dismiss an application under subsection (l) of this section if the applicant
(not being a public officer) fails to satisfy the court that he has a material inter-
est in making the application.
10. Licences of right
(1) Subject to this section, if a patentee (not being precluded by the terms of any pre-
viously registered licence from granting a further licence) applies in writing to the regis-
trar for the words "licences of right" to be registered in respect of his patent, the registrar
shall enter the words accordingly in the register and notify the entry.
(2) Where an entry is made under subsection (1) of this section in respect of a pat-
ent'-
(a) any person shall have the right to obtain a licence to exploit the patent on such
terms as, failing agreement between that person and the patentee, shall be fixed
by the court on the application of that person; and

(b) the amount of the annual fees payable in respect of the patent shall be reduced
by half, the reduction first taking effect in relation to the annual fees first pay-
able after the date of the entry.
(3) A patentee may at any time apply to the registrar for an entry under subsection (1)
of this section to be cancelled; and, if no licences have been granted under this section or
all the grantees agree, the registrar shall thereupon cancel the entry and notify the can-
cellation, but only after payment of all annual or other fees which would have been pay-
able if the entry had never been made.
(4) The grantee of a licence under this section shall not be entitled to assign the li-
cence or grant further licences under it.
(5) Subsections (1) (b), (2) (a), (3) and (6) of section 23 of this Act shall apply in re-
lation to licences granted under this section as they apply to licences and contracts under
section 23 of this Act.
11. Compulsory licences and official use
The provisions of the First Schedule to this Act shall have effect in relation to com-
pulsory licences and the use of patents for the service of government agencies.
[First Schedule.]
Designs
12. Nature of industrial design
Any combination of lines or colours or both, and any three-dimensional form,
whether or not associated with colours, is an industrial design, if it is intended by the
creator to be used as a model or pattern to be multiplied by industrial process and is not
intended solely to obtain a technical result.
13. Registrable designs
(1) Subject to this section, an industrial design is registrable if--
(a) it is new; and
(b) it is not contrary to public order or morality.
(2) Where application is made for the registration of an industrial design, the design
shall be presumed to be new at the time of the application except in so far as the follow-
ing provisions of this section provide otherwise.
(3) An industrial design is not new if, before the date of application for registration, it
has been made available to the public anywhere and at any time by means of description,
use or in any other way, unless it is shown to the satisfaction of the registrar that the
creator of the design could not have known that it had been made so available.
(4) An industrial design shall not be deemed to have been made available to the pub-
lic solely by reason of the fact that within the period of six months preceding the filing of
the application for registration the creator has exhibited it in an official or officially rec-
ognised exhibition.

(5) An industrial design is not new merely because it differs in minor or inessential
ways from an earlier design or concerns a type of product other than the type with which
an earlier design is concerned.
14. Right to registration
(1) Subject to this section, the right to registration of an industrial design shall be
vested in the statutory creator, that is to say, the person who, whether or not he is the true
creator, is the first to file, or validly to claim a foreign priority for, an application for reg-
istration of the design.
(2) The true creator shall be entitled to be named as such in the register, and the en-
titlement in question shall not be modifiable by contract.
(3) If the essential elements of an application for the registration of an industrial de-
sign have been obtained by the purported applicant from the creation of another person
without the consent of that other person both to the obtaining of those essential elements
and to the filing of the application, all rights in the application and in any consequent
registration shall be deemed to be transferred to that other person.
(4) Where an industrial design is created in the course of employment or in the exe-
cution of a contract for the performance of specified work, the ownership of the design
shall be vested in the employer or, as the case may be, in the person who commissioned
the work:
Provided that, where the creator is an employee, then, if his contract of employ-
ment does not require him to exercise any creative activity but he has in creating the de-
sign used data or means that his employment has put at his disposal--
(a) he shall be entitled to fair remuneration taking into account his salary and the
importance of the design which he has created; and
(b) the entitlement in question is not modifiable by contract and may be enforced
by civil proceedings.
15. Applications for registration
(1) An application for the registration of an industrial design shall be made to the
registrar and--
(a) shall contain-
(i) a request for registration of the design;
(ii) the applicant's full name and address and, if that address is outside
Nigeria, an address for service in Nigeria;
(iii) a specimen of the design or a photographic or graphic representation of
the design with any printing block or other means of reproduction from
which the representation was derived;
(iv) an indication of the kind of product (or, where a classification has been
prescribed, the class of product) for which the design will be used; and
(v) such other matter as may be prescribed; and
(b) shall be accompanied by--
(i) the prescribed fee;

(ii) where appropriate, a declaration signed by the true creator requesting
that he be named as such in the register and giving his name and ad-
dress; and
(iii) if the application is made by an agent, a signed power of attorney (so
however that, notwithstanding any rule of law, legalisation or certifica-
tion of the signature of the power of attorney shall be unnecessary).
(2) A single application may relate to any number of industrial designs not exceeding
fifty, if the products to which the designs relate are of the same kind or, where a classifi-
cation has been prescribed, of the same class.
(3) Where an applicant for the registration of an industrial design seeks to avail him-
self of a foreign priority in respect of an earlier application made in a country outside
Nigeria-
(a) he shall append to his application under subsection (1) of this section a written
declaration showing-
(i) the date and number of the earlier application;
(ii) the country in which the earlier application was made; and
(iii) the name of the person who made the earlier application; and
(b) not more than three months after the making of the application under subsec-
tion (1) of this section, he shall furnish the registrar with a copy of the earlier
application certified correct by the Industrial Property Office (or its equivalent)
in the country where the earlier application was made.
16. Examination of applications for registration
(1) The registrar shall examine every application for registration of an industrial de-
sign as to its conformity with sections 13 (1) (b) and 15 of this Act, and--
(a) if the application fails in any respect to conform with section 13 (1) (b) or
15 (l) or (2) of this Act, the registrar shall reject the application; and
(b) if the application fails in any respect to conform with section 15 (3) of this Act,
the registrar shall disregard any claim for foreign priority.
(2) Where the examination mentioned in subsection (l ) of this section shows that an
application for the registration of an industrial design satisfies the requirements of sec-
tions 13 (1) (b) and 15 of this Act, the design shall be registered in accordance with the
application without further examination and, in particular, without examination of the
question whether the registration might be contrary to section 13 (1) (a) of this Act; and,
where the said examination shows that section 15 (3) of this Act has been complied with
as respects a claim for foreign priority, the foreign priority claimed shall be recorded in
the regi ster.
17. Registration and publication
(1) An industrial design shall be registered by the issue to the applicant of a registra-
tion certificate containing-
(a) the number of the design in order of registration;

(b) the name and address of the registered owner and, if that address is outside
Nigeria, an address for service in Nigeria;
(c) the date of the application and of the issue of the registration certificate;
(d) if foreign priority is claimed--
(i) an indication of the fact; and
(ii) the number and date of the application on which the claim is based and
the name of the country where the application was made;
(e) a reproduction or representation of the design and an indication of the kind (or,
where a classification has been prescribed, the class) of products for which it
will be used; and
(f) where appropriate, the name and address of the true creator.
(2) The registrar shall maintain a register of industrial designs which shall consist of
duplicates of the registration certificates issued under subsection (1) of this section, to-
gether with such further matter as is required by this Act to be registered.
(3) As soon as may be after a design has been registered under subsection (1) of this
section, the registrar shall cause to be published--
(a) a notification of the registration containing the details mentioned in para-
graphs (a) to (f) of that subsection; or
(b) if a summary form of notification is prescribed, a notification in that form.
18. Applications under sealed cover
(1) An applicant for the registration of an industrial design may ask for the design to
be kept secret for a specified period not exceeding twelve months from the date of the
application; and, where he does so, then, notwithstanding any other provision of this
Act-
(a) the specimen and other matters mentioned in section 15 (1) (a) (iii) and (iv) of
this Act shall be enclosed in a sealed package, which shall be opened by the
registrar-
(i) when the specified period has elapsed; or
(ii) if, before the specified period has elapsed, the applicant asks for the
application to be converted into an open application; or
(iii) if the package is still sealed, at the expiration of twelve months after
the date of the application;
(b) a provisional registration certificate shall be issued and a provisional notifica-
tion published under section 17 of this Act, each of which shall exclude the re-
production and other matters mentioned in section 17 (1) (e) of this Act;
(c) the said provisional registration certificate and provisional notification shall
not confer any right to protection under section 25 of this Act; and
(d) when the sealed package has been opened pursuant to paragraph (a) of this
subsection, the registrar shall proceed in accordance with sections 16 and 17 of
this Act in so far as he has not already done so and, if authorised by those sec-
tions, shall issue a revised registration certificate and publish a revised notifi-
cation which shall have the same effect as any other certificate issued or notifi-
cation published under section 17 of this Act.

(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, a sealed package may be opened
by the registrar at any time on the direction of a court and shall be resealed when the
court no longer requires it:
Provided that, if the time at which the package may be opened under subsec-
tion (1) (a) of this section arrives before the court has ceased to require it, the package
shall be deemed to have been duly opened at that time and shall not be resealed.
19. Rights conferred by registration
(1) Registration of an industrial design confers upon the registered owner the right to
preclude any other person from doing any of the following acts--
(a) reproducing the design in the manufacture of a product;
(b) importing, selling or utilising for commercial purposes a product reproducing
the design; and
(c) holding such a product for the purpose of selling it or of utilising it for com-
mercial purposes.
(2) The reproduction of a registered industrial design is not lawful for the purposes of
subsection (l) of this section merely because it differs in minor or inessential ways from
the design or because it concerns a type of product other than the type with which the
design is concerned.
(3) The rights conferred by this section-
(a) shall extend only to acts done for commercial or industrial purposes; and
(b) shall not extend to acts done in respect of a product incorporating a registered
industrial design after the product has been lawfully sold in Nigeria.
20. Duration and renewal of registration
(l) Subject to this Act, registration of an industrial design-
(a) shall be effective in the first instance for five years from the date of the appli-
cation for registration; and
(b) on payment of the prescribed fee may be renewed for two further consecutive
periods of five years.
(2) The fee mentioned in subsection (1) (b) of this section shall be paid within the
twelve months immediately preceding the renewal period to which it relates:
Provided that-
(a) a period of grace of six months after the beginning of the renewal period shall
be allowed for the payment of the fee; and
(b) if the fee and any prescribed surcharge are paid within that period, this subsec-
tion shall be deemed to have been complied with.
(3) The fact that the registration of an industrial design has ceased to be effective or
has been renewed shall be registered and notified.

21. Renunciation of registration
(1) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, the registered owner of an industrial de-
sign may renounce the registration by a written declaration to the registrar.
(2) A renunciation under subsection (1) of this section-
(a) may be limited--
(i) to any particular kind or kinds of product; or
(ii) if a classification of products has been prescribed, to any particular
class or classes of product; or
(iii ) if the application for registration comprised several designs, to anyone
or more of those designs;
(b) subject to paragraph (d) of this subsection, shall be registered and notified;
(c) shall not be effective until it has been registered; and
(d) if it relates to a design as to which a contractual licence is registered, shall be
registered only if-
(i) it is accompanied by the licensee's written consent to registration; or
(ii) the licensee has in the licence contract agreed that this paragraph shall
not apply.
22. Nullity of registration
(1) Subject to this section, on the application of any person (including a publ ic officer
acting in the exercise of his functions) the court shall declare the registration of an indus-
trial design to be null and void--
(a) if the design, because of its failure to conform with section 13 (1) (b) of this
Act, ought not to have been registered; or
(b) if the design fails to comply with section 13 (1) (a) or 14 of this Act.
(2) Where-
(a) a declaration under subsection (1) of this section relates to an application com-
prising several designs; and
(b) the grounds for making the declaration affect only some of those designs,
the declaration shall apply only to the designs so affected.
(3) Where a declaration is made under subsection (1) of this section-
(a) the registration in question shall be deemed, to the extent specified in the dec-
laration, to have been null and void ab initio, so however that it shall not be
necessary to repay royalties paid by any licensee unless the court so orders;
and
(b) the proper officer of the court shall inform the registrar, who shall register and
notify the declaration.
(4) The court-
(a) shall not make a declaration under subsection (1) of this section without first
giving the design owner an opportunity to be heard;

(b) in applying subsection (1) (a) of this section, shall have regard only to the state of affairs
existing when the proceedings were instituted; and
(c) shall dismiss an application under subsection (1) of this section if the applicant
(not being a public officer) fails to satisfy the court that he has a material inter-
est in making the application.
General
23. Contractual licences
(1) Subject to this section--
(a) a patentee or design owner may by a written contract signed by the parties
grant a licence to any person to exploit the relevant invention or design; and
(b) in the absence of any provision to the contrary in the contract, the licensee
shall be entitled to do anywhere in Nigeria in relation to the patent or design
any of the acts mentioned in section 6 or 9 this Act, as the case may be.
(2) Where a licence is granted under subsection (1) of this section--
(a) the licence shall be registered, and shall be of no effect against third parties
until registration is effected and the prescribed fee paid; and
(b) the registration shall be cancelled at the request of the licensor if the Registrar
is satisfied that the licence has been terminated.
(3) Any clause in a contract for a licence under subsection (1) of this section is null
and void in so far as it imposes on the licensee in the industrial or commercial field re-
strictions which do not derive from the rights conferred by the relevant patent or design
or are unnecessary for the safeguarding of those rights:
Provided that-
(a) limitations concerning the scope, extent, territory or duration of the exploita-
tion of the patent or design or the quality of the products in connection with
which the patent or design may be exploited;
(b) obligations imposed on the licensee to abstain from all acts capable of preju-
dicing the validity of the patent or the validity of the registration of the design;
and
(c) in the case or a patent, limitations justified by the interest of the licensor in the
technically efficient exploitation of the subject of the patent, are not restric-
tions of the kind mentioned in this subsection.
(4) In the absence of any provision to the contrary in a contract for a licence under
subsection (1) of this section--
(a) the grant of the licence shall not prevent the licensor from--
(i) granting further licences to other persons; or
(ii) himself exploiting the relevant patent or design;
(b) the licence shall not be assignable by the licensee; and
(c) the licensee shall not be entitled to grant further licences.

(5) Where a contract under subsection (1) of this section provides for a licensee to
grant further licences, this section shall apply in relation to any such further licence as it
applies in relation to licences granted under the said subsection (1).
(6) The Minister, if he is satisfied that it is in the interest of Nigeria and its economic
development to do so, may by order in the Federal Gazette provide that contracts under
subsection (1) of this section (or any specified class thereof) shall, in so far as they in-
volve the payment of royalties outside Nigeria, be invalid without the approval of such
authority as may be specified in the order.
24. Assignments, transfers and joint ownership
(1) SubjectlO this section, a person's rights in a patent application, in an application
for the registration of a design, in a patent or in a registered design may be assigned,
transferred by succession or held in joint ownership.
(2) An assignment under subsection (1) of this section shall be in writing and signed
by the parties.
(3) An assignment or transfer by succession under subsection (1) of this section shall
have no effect against third parties unless it has been registered and the prescribed fee
paid.
(4) In the absence of any provision to the contrary among themselves, joint owners of
a patent or registered design may separately transfer their shares, exploit the patented
invention, utilise the registered design or exercise the rights conferred by section 6 or 9 of
this Act, as the case may be; but a licence under this Act may not be granted by joint
owners otherwise than jointly.
(5) Any reference (however expressed) in this Act to an applicant for a patent, an ap-
plicant for the registration of a design, a patentee or a design owner includes, unless the
context otherwise requires, a reference to any predecessors or successors in title and,
where appropriate, to joint applicants, joint patentees or joint owners, as the case may be.
25. Infringement of rights
(1) The rights of a patentee or design owner are infringed if another person, without
the licence of the patentee or design owner, does or causes the doing of any act which
that other person is precluded from doing under section 6 or 9 of this Act, as the case may
be.
(2) An infringement of the rights of a patentee or design owner shall be actionable at
the suit of the patentee or design owner in question; and in any action for such an in-
fringement all such relief by way of damages, injunction accounts or otherwise shall be
available to the plaintiff as is available in any corresponding proceedings in respect of the
infringement of other proprietary rights.
(3) If-
(a) a patent has been granted in respect of a process for the manufacture of a new
product; and
(b) the same product is manufactured by a person other than the patentee,

the product shall in the absence of proof to the contrary be presumed to have been manu-
factured by that process.
(4) The grantee of a licence under this Act from a patentee or design owner may by
registered letter require the licensor to institute proceedings under subsection (1) of this
section in respect of any infringement indicated by the grantee in the letter; and, if the
licensor unreasonably refuses or neglects to institute the proceedings, the licensee may
institute them in his own name, without prejudice to the right of the licensor to intervene
in the proceedings.
26. Legal proceedings
(1) Jurisdiction to hear and dispose of legal proceedings under this Act is hereby
vested in the Federal High Court and, subject to this Act, the provisions of the Trade
Marks Act applicable to legal proceedings under that Act shall apply with the necessary
modifications to legal proceedings under this Act.
[Cap. T13.]
(2) The court hearing proceedings under this Act may sit with and be advised by two
assessors having expert knowledge of matters of a technological or economic nature.
(3) The Chief Judge of the Federal High Court may make rules of court for the regu-
lation of legal proceedings under this Act if he thinks it necessary to do so.
27. Foreign priority
(1) The Minister may, with a view to the fulfilment of a treaty, convention or other
international arrangement or agreement to which Nigeria is a party, declare by order in
the Federal Gazette that any country specified in the order is a convention country for the
purposes of this section.
(2) So long as there is in force an order under subsection (1) of this section declaring
a country to be a convention country, a patent application or a design application in Nige-
ria, if an earlier corresponding application for the protection of an invention or the regis-
tration of a design has been made in that convention country, shall be treated as having
been made on the date when that earlier application was made:
Provided that this subsection shall not apply where the earlier application was
made--
(a) in the case of an invention, more than twelve months; or
(b) in the case of a design, more than six months,
before the application in Nigeria.
(3) Where a person has applied for the protection of an invention or the registration
of a design by an application which--
(a) in accordance with a treaty, convention or other international arrangement or
agreement subsisting between any two or more convention countries is
equivalent to an application duly made in anyone of those convention coun-
tries; or
(b) in accordance with the law of any convention country is equivalent to an appli-
cation duly made in that convention country,

he shall be deemed for the purposes of this Act to have applied in each of those conven-
tion countries or in that convention country, as the case may be.
(4) Where a patent application or a design application is to be treated by virtue of
subsection (2) of this section as having been made on the date of an earlier application in
a convention country, that earlier date is referred to in this Act as a foreign priority, and
in this Act the expression "foreign priority" shall be construed accordingly.
28. Registration: miscellaneous provisions
(1) There shall be a registrar of patents and designs, who shall be appointed by the
Federal Civil Service Commission.
(2) The registrar may correct any clerical error in an entry in the register, but before
doing so shall give the person to whom the entry relates an opportunity to make repre-
sentations.
(3) Any persons--
(a) may consult the register free of charge during the prescribed hours; and
(b) on payment of the prescribed fee, may obtain a copy of any entry in the regis-
ter.
(4) A copy of an entry in the register sealed with the registrar's seal shall be admissi-
ble as evidence of what is stated therein; and any document purporting to be such a copy
shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, to be what it purports to be.
(5) Any person aggrieved by a decision of the registrar in the exercise of his func-
tions under this Act may appeal to the court.
(6) If the Minister so directs, the registrar shall from time to time publish a journal to
be known as the Patents and Designs Journal in which shall be published all such matters
as are required by this Act to be published or notified and such other matters relating to
patents and designs as the registrar thinks fit:
Provided that, if there is no such direction in force, any matter required by this Act
to be published or notified shall be published by the registrar in the Federal Gazette.
(7) Subject to this Act and any rules made under section 30 (b) of this Act, the regis-
trar shall maintain and make entries in the register in whatever manner appears to him to
be most suitable and convenient.
29. Effect against the State
Subject to Part 11 of the First Schedule to this Act, a patent or registered design shall
have the same effect against the State as against an individual.
[First Schedule.]
30. Rules
(1) The Minister may make rules-
(a) prescribing anything requiring to be prescribed for the purposes of this Act
(including summary forms of notification of the grant of a patent and the reg-
istration of a design, and classifications of products to which designs relate);

(b) regulating the manner in which the registrar shall maintain and make entries in
the register; and
(c) containing such administrative or procedural provisions as appear to him to be
necessary or expedient in order to facilitate the operation of this Act.
(2) The Minister of Industries with the approval of the President may make rules es-
tablishing schemes to encourage inventive activity and without prejudice to the generality
of the foregoing, any such scheme may include provision for the payment of grants to
persons who have discovered or perfected, or appear to have reasonable prospects of dis-
covering or perfecting, important inventions which cannot be further developed for finan-
cial reasons.
31. Repeals, and transitional and saving provisions
(l) The Registration of United Kingdom Patents Act, the United Kingdom Designs
(Protection) Act, the Patent Rights (Limitation) Act 1968 and (in so far as they are in
force in Nigeria) the Patents Act 1949 of the United Kingdom and amendments thereof
are hereby repealed.
[Caps. 182 and 204 of 1958 Laws of Nigeria. 1968 No. 8, 12, 13 and 14. Geo. 6. C. 87.]
(2) The transitional and saving provisions in the Second Schedule shall have effect
notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section or any other provision of this Act.
[Second Schedule.]
32. Interpretation
(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires--
"court" means the Federal High Court;
"design" means an industrial design;
"design application" means an application for the registration of an industrial design;
"design owner" means the registered owner of an industrial design;
"foreign priority" has the meaning assigned by section 27 of this Act;
"import" means import into Nigeria;
"the Minister", except in Part II of the First Schedule to this Act, means the Minister
for Commerce;
"patent application" means an application for the grant of a patent;
"patentee" means a person to whom a patent has been granted;
"register" means the register of patents, the register of industrial designs, or both, as
the case may require;
"registrar" means the registrar of patents and designs.

(2) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, a reference to a numbered sec-
tion or schedule is a reference to the section or schedule so numbered in this Act.
33. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Patents and Designs Act.