1. S hort titl e
This Act may be cited as the Police Act.
2. Interpretati on
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-
"Commissioner" means a Commissioner of Police, a Deputy Commissioner of Po-
lice or an Assistant Commissioner of Police;
"constable " means any police officer below the rank of corporal;

"court" means any court established by any law in force in Nigeria;
"the Force" means the Nigeria Police Force established under this Act;
"i ns pector" includes a chief inspector and an inspector of police;
"Ins pector -General ", "Deputy Ins pector -General " and "Assistant Ins pector -
General " means respectively the Inspector-General of Police, the Deputy Inspector-
General of Police and an Assistant Inspector-General of Police;
"non-commissioned offi cer " means a police sergeant-major, a police sergeant or a
police corporal as the case may be;
"police officer" means any member of the Force;
"superi ntendent of police" includes a chief superintendent of police, a superinten-
dent of police, a deputy superintendent of police, and an assistant superintendent of po-
lice;
"superi or police officer" means any police officer above the rank of a cadet assistant
superintendent of police;
"supernumerary police officer " means a police officer appointed under section 18,
19 or 21 of this Act or under an authorisation given under section 20 of this Act.
PART II
Constitution and employment of the Force
3. Es tablis hment of Police Force
There shall be established for Nigeria a police force to be known as the Nigeria Police
Force (in this Act referred to as "the Force").
4. General duties of the police
The police shall be employed for the prevention and detection of crime, the apprehen-
sion of offenders, the preservation of law and order, the protection of life and property
and the due enforcement of all laws and regulations with which they are directly charged,
and shall perform such military duties within or outside Nigeria as may be required of
them by, or under the authority of this or any other Act.
5. Constitution of the Force
There shall be an Inspector-General of the Nigeria Police, such number of Deputy In-
spectors-General, Assistant Inspectors-General as the Nigeria Police Council considers
appropriate, a Commissioner for each State of the Federation and such ranks as may,
from time to time, be appointed by the Nigeria Police Council.
6. Command of the Force
The Force shall be under the command of the Inspector-General, and contingents of
the Force stationed in a State shall, subject to the authority of the Inspector-General, be
under the command of the Commissioner of that State.
7. Duties of the Deputy Inspector-General of Police
(1) A Deputy Inspector-General is the second in command of the Force and shall act
for the Inspector-General in the Inspector-General's absence from Force Headquarters.
(2) When acting for the Inspector-General, the Deputy Inspector-General shall be
guided by the following-
(a) all matters involving any change in Force policy shall be held in abeyance
pending the return of the Inspector-General or, if the matter is urgent, referred
directly to the Inspector-General for his instructions;
(b) all matters of importance dealt with by the Deputy Inspector-General during
the absence of the Inspector-General shall be referred to the Inspector-General
on his return.
8. Duties of an Assistant Inspector-General

(1) An Assistant Inspector-General shall be subordinate in rank to the Deputy In-
spector-General but shall be senior to all commissioners.
(2) An assistant Inspector-General shall act for the Inspector-General in the absence
of both the Inspector-General and the Deputy Inspector-General and when so acting, the
provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (2) of section 7 of this Act shall, with
all necessary modifications, apply to him.
9. Establishment of the Nigeria Police Council
(1) There is hereby established a body to be known as the Nigeria Police Council (in
this Act referred to as "the Council") which shall consist of-
(a) the President who shall be chairman;
(b) the Governor of each State of the Federation;
(c) the chairman of the Police Service Commission;
(d) the Inspector-General of Police.
(2) The functions of the Council shall include-
(a) the organisation and administration of the Nigeria Police Force and all other
matters relating thereto (not being matters relating to the use and operational
control of the Force, or the appointment, disciplinary control and dismissal of
members of the Force);
(b) the general supervision of the Nigeria Police Force;
(c) advising the President on the appointment of the Inspector-General of Police.
(3) The Permanent Secretary in the Police Affairs Office, in the Presidency, shall be
the Secretary to the Council and the Secretariat of the Council shall be in the Police Af-
fairs Office, the Presidency.
(4) The President shall be charged with operational control of the Force.
(5) The Inspector-General shall be charged with the command of the Force subject to
the directive of the President.
10. Public safety and public order
(1) The President may give to the Inspector-General such directions with respect to
the maintaining and securing of public safety and public order as he may consider neces-
sary, and the Inspector-General shall comply with those directions or cause them to be
complied with.
(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (1) of this section, the Commissioner of a
State shall comply with the directions of the Governor of the State with respect to the
maintaining and securing of public safety and public order within the State, or cause them
to be complied with: .(
Provided that before carrying out any such direction the Commissioner may re-
quest that the matter stlould be referred to the President for his directions.
11. Deleg ati on by Ins pector-General
The Inspector-General may, with the consent of the President by writing under his
hand, delegate any of his powers under this Act (except this power of delegation) so that
the delegated powers may be exercised by the delegate with respect to the matters or
class of matters specified or defined in the instrument of delegation.
12. Command of police i n case of acti ve servi ce
When required to perform military duties in accordance with the provisions of sec-
tion 4 of this Act, such duties entailing service with the armed forces of Nigeria or any
force for the time being attached thereto or acting therewith, the police shall be under the
command and subject to the orders of the officer in command of the forces in Nigeria, but
for the purposes of interior economy shall remain under the control of a superior police
officer.
PA RT III
General administration

Oaths for officers
13. Oaths to be taken by officers on appointment
On the appointment or promotion of any person as a member of the Force to or above
the rank of cadet sub-inspector, the provisions of the Oaths Act shall apply; and such per-
son shall forthwith take and subscribe to the official oath, the police oath and, in proper
case, the oath of allegiance. [Cap. 01.]
Enlistment and service
14. Enlistment
Every constable, shall, on appointment, be enlisted to serve in the Force for three
years, or for such other period as may be fixed by the Police Service Commis sion to be
reckoned in all cases from the day on which he has been approved for service and taken
on to the strength.
15. Extension of term of enlistment i n s pecial cases
(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 14 of this Act, where a constable on or
after his appointment opts or is selected for duties other than general duties and engages
in those duties, he shall be deemed to have agreed to extend his period of enlistment by
an additional period not exceeding six years, the extent of the additional period to be
fixed by the Police Service Commission, and the enlistment of t,be constable shall have
effect accordingly.
(2) Where any person to whom subsection (1) of this section applies re-engages for
service with the Force, this section shall have effect in respect of the re-engagement, and
notwithstanding the fact that on or after the re-engagement the person concerned is or
may be a non-commissioned officer.
16. Decl arati ons
Every non-commissioned officer, constable or recruit constable on enlistment, and
every such police officer if re-engaged for a further period of service, shall make and
subscribe to the police declaration prescribed by the Oaths Act.
[Cap. 01.]
17. Re-eng agement
(1) Any non-commissioned officer or constable of good character may, within six
months before completion of his first period of enlistment and with the prescribed ap-
proval, re-engage to serve for a further period of six years, and may similarly re-engage
for a second period of six years, and may thereafter similarly re-engage either to serve
until the expiration of a third period of six years or until he reaches the age of 45 years
(whichever is earlier).
(2) Upon completion of such third period of six years, or if he has re-engaged until
reaching the age of 45 years then upon reaching such age, the non-commissioned officer
or constable may if he so desires and with the prescribed approval continue in the Force
in the same manner in all respects as if his term of service were still unexpired, except
that he may be discharged or may claim a discharge upon six months' prescribed notice
thereof being given to or by him.
(3) The prescribed approval referred to in subsections (1) and (2) of this section shall
be that of the Police Service Commission or of a superior police officer to whom the Po-
lice Service Commission has duly delegated the power to give such approval, and the
prescribed notice referred to in subsection (2) shall be given by or to the Police Service
Commission or by or to a superior police officer to whom the Police Service Commission
has duly delegated the power of giving or receiving such notice.
(4) If a non-commissioned officer or constable offers to re-engage within six months
after having received his discharge he will, if his offer of service is accepted, on re-
engagement be entitled to the rank which he was holding at the time of his discharge,
provided there is a vacancy in the establishment of that rank at the time he re-engages.
(5) The service of a non-commissioned officer or constable who has re-engaged un-
der this section shall be deemed to be continuous for the purposes of the pension or an-
nual allowance or gratuities, as the case may be, the non-commissioned officer or con-
stable being regarded as being on leave without pay during the period between discharge
and re-engagement.

(6) No non-commissioned officer or constable may re-engage after a period of six
months has elapsed since his discharge, but a non-commissioned officer or constable may
be permitted to re-enlist subsequent to that period if his offer of service is accepted.
(7) The question of the reinstatement of a re-enlisted non-commissioned officer or
constable to the rank he held prior to his discharge shall be decided by a superior police
officer.
(8) Any non-commissioned officer or constable whose period of service expires dur-
ing a state of war, insurrection or hostilities, may be compulsorily retained and his service
prolonged for such period, not exceeding twelve months, as the Police Service Commis-
sion may direct.
(9) Subject to the provisions of section 7 (1) of the Pensions Act and to the provisions
of subsection (2) of this section, no police officer other than a superior police officer shall
be at liberty to resign or withdraw himself from his duties without the approval of the
Police Service Commission or any police officer authorised in writing by the Police
Service Commission.
[Cap. P4.]
Supernumerary police officers
18. Appointment of supernumerary police officers to protect property
(1) Any person (including any government department) who desires to avail himself
of the services of one or more police officers for the protection of property owned or
controlled by him may make application therefor to the Inspector-General, stating the
nature and situation of the property in question and giving such other particulars as the
Inspector-General may require.
(2) On an application under the foregoing subsection the Inspector-General may, with
the approval of the President, direct the appropriate authority to appoint as supernumer-
ary police officers in the Force such number of persons as the Inspector-General thinks
requisite for the protection of the property to which the application relates.
(3) Every supernumerary police officer appointed under this section-
(a) shall be appointed in respect of the area of the police province or, where there
is no police province, the police district or police division in which the prop-
erty which he is to protect is situated;
(b) shall be employed exclusively on duties connected with the protection of that
property;
(c) shall, in the police area in respect of which he is appointed and in any police
area adjacent thereto, but not elsewhere, have the powers , privileges and im-
munities of a police officer; and
(d) subject to the restrictions imposed by paragraphs (b) and (c) of this subsection
and to the provisions of section 22 of this Act, shall be a member of the Force
for all purposes and shall accordingly be subject to the provisions of this Act
and in particular the provisions thereof relating to discipline.
(4) Where any supernumerary police officer is appointed under this section, the per-
son availing himself of the services of that officer shall pay to the Accountant-General-
(a) on the enlistment of the officer, the full cost of the officer's uniform; and
(b) quarterly in advance, a sum equal to the aggregate of the amount of the offi-
cer's pay for the quarter in question and such additional amounts as the In-
spector-General may direct to be paid in respect of the maintenance of the offi-
cer during that quarter,
and any sum payable to the Accountant-General under this subsection which is not duly
paid may be recovered in a summary manner before a magistrate on the complaint of any
superior police officer:
Provided that this subsection shall not apply in the case of an appointment made on
the application of a department of the Government of the Federation.
(5) Where the person availing himself of the services of any supernumerary police
officer appointed under this section desires the services of that officer to be discontinued,
he must give not less than two months' notice in writing to that effect, in the case of an
officer appointed in respect of a police area within that part of Lagos State formerly
known as the Federal territory, to the Inspector-General or, in the case of an officer ap-

pointed in respect of a police area within a State, to the Commissioner of Police of that
State; and on the expiration of such notice the services of the supernumerary police offi-
cer in question shall be withdrawn.
(6) Where the services of a supernumerary police officer are withdrawn in pursuance
of subsection (5) of this section in the course of a quarter for which the sum mentioned in
subsection (4) (b) of this section has been paid to the Accountant-General, the Account-
ant-General shall pay to the person by whom that sum was paid a sum which bears to that
sum the same proportion as the unexpired portion of that quarter bears to the whole of
that quarter.
(6) In this section, "the Accountant-General " means the Accountant-General of the
Federation; "government department" means any department of the Government of the
Federation or of the Government of a State; and "quarter" means any period of three
months; and any reference in this section to the person availing himself of the service of a
supernumerary police officer appointed under this section is a reference to the person on
whose application the officer was appointed or, if that person has been succeeded by
some other person as the person owning or controlling the property for the protection of
which the officer in question was appointed, that other person.
19. Appoi ntment of supernumerary police officers for empl oyment on
admi nistrati ve duties on police premises
(1) The appropriate authority may, at the request of any superior police officer, ap-
point any person as a supernumerary police officer in the Force with a view to that per-
son's employment on duties connected with the administration or maintenance of prem-
ises occupied or used for the purposes of the Force, but shall not do so in any particular
case unless satisfied that it is necessary in the interests of security or discipline that per-
sons performing the duties in question should be subject to the provisions of this Act re-
lating to discipline.
(2) Every supernumerary police officer appointed under this section-
(a) shall be appointed in respect of the area of the police area command or where
there is no police area command, the police division in which the premises in
connection with whose administration or maintenance he is to be employed are
situated;
(b) shall be employed exclusively on duties connected with the administration or
maintenance of those premises;
(c) shall, in the police area in respect of which he is appointed, but not elsewhere,
have the powers, privileges and immunities of a police officer; and
(d) subject to the restrictions imposed by paragraphs (b) and (c) of this subsection
and to the provisions of section 22 of this Act, shall be a member of the Force
for all purposes and shall accordingly be subject to the provisions of this Act
and in particular the provisions thereof relating to discipline.
20. Appoi ntment of supernumerary police officers where necessary i n the public
interest
(1) If at any time the President is satisfied, as regards any police area, that it is neces-
sary in the public interest for supernumerary police officers to be employed in that area,
he may authorise the appropriate authority to appoint persons as supernumerary police
officers in the Force under and in accordance with the authorisation.
(2) Every authorisation under this section shall be in writing and shall specify the po-
lice area to which it relates and the maximum number of supernumerary police officers
who may be appointed under that authorisation.
(3) Every supernumerary police officer appointed under an authorisation given under
this section-
(a) shall be appointed in respect of the police area to which the authorisation re-
lates;
(b) shall, in the police area in respect of which he is appointed and in any police
area adjacent thereto, but not elsewhere, have the powers, privileges and im-
munities of a police officer; and

(c) subject to the restriction imposed by paragraph Cb ) of this subsection and to the
provisions of section 22 of this Act, shall be a member of the Force for all pur-
poses and shall accordingly be subject to the provisions of this Act and in par-
ticular to the provisions thereof relating to discipline.
21. Appointment of supernumerary police officers for attachment as orderli es
(l) The appropriate authority may at the request of the Inspector-General or of the
Commissioner of Police of a State appoint any person as a supernumerary police officer
in the Force with a view to that person's attachment as an orderly to-
(a) a Minister; or
(b) a Commissioner of the Government of a State; or
(c) a police officer of or above the rank of assistant commissioner.
(2) Every supernumerary police officer appointed under this section-
(a) shall be employed exclusively on duties connected with the activities of the
person to whom he is attached;
(b) shall, while so employed, have throughout Nigeria the powers, privileges and
immunities of a police officer; and
(c) subject to the restriction imposed by paragraph (a) of this subsection and to the
provisions of section 22 of this Act, shall be a member of the Force for all pur-
poses and shall accordingly be subject to the provisions of this Act and in par-
ticular the provisions thereof relating to discipline.
22. Provisions supplementary to secti ons 18 to 21
(l) Every supernumerary police officer shall, on appointment, be enlisted to serve in
the Force from month to month, and accordingly a supernumerary police officer may at
any time resign his appointment by giving one month's notice in that behalf to the supe-
rior police officer in charge of the police area in respect of which he is appointed, and his
appointment may be determined by the appropriate authority on one month's notice in
that behalf or on payment of one month's pay instead of such notice.
(2) The ranks to which supernumerary police officers may be appointed shall be pre-
scribed by regulations made by the President under section 46 of this Act on the recom-
mendation of the Police Service Commission.
(3) A supernumerary police officer shall have no claim on the Police Reward Fund;
and, without prejudice to any liability under the Workmen's Compensation Act, to pay
compensation to or in respect of any person by virtue of his employment as a super-
numerary police officer, a person's service as such as officer shall not render him or any
other person eligible for any pension, gratuity or annual allowance under this Act or the
Pensions Act.
[Cap. W6. Cap. P4.]
(4) In sections 18 to 21 of this Act and this section-
"the appropri ate authority", in relation to any power to appoint or determine the
appointment of supernumerary police officers , means the Police Service Commission or
any superior police officer to whom that power has been delegated in accordance with
section 216 (1) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999;
[Cap. C23.]
"police area" means any police Area Command, police district or police division;
"Area Comman d", "poli ce dis trict" and "poli ce di vision" means respectively an
Area Command, police district or police division established under the provisions of
standing orders made under section 47 of this Act.
PA RT IV
Powers of police officers
23. Con duct of prosecuti ons
Subject to the provisions of sections 174 and 211 of the Constitution of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria 1999 (which relate to the power of the Attorney-General of the Fed-
eration and of a State to institute and undertake, take over and continue or discontinue

criminal proceedings against any person before any court of law in Nigeria), any police
officer may conduct in person all prosecutions before any court, whether or not the in-
formation or complaint is laid in his name.
[Cap. C23.]
24. Po wer to arrest wi thout warrant
(1) In addition to the powers of arrest without warrant conferred upon a police officer
by section 10 of the Criminal Procedure Act, it shall be lawful for any police officer and
any person whom he may call to his assistance, to arrest without warrant in the following
cases-
[Cap. C41.]
(a) any person whom he finds committing any felony, misdemeanour or simple
offence, or whom he reasonably suspects of having committed or of being
about to commit any felony, misdemeanour or breach of the peace;
(b) any person whom any other person charges with having committed a felony or
misdemeanour;
(c) any person whom any other person-
(i) suspects of having committed a felony or misdemeanour; or
(ii) charges with having committed a simple offence, if such other person
is willing to accompany the police officer to the police station and to
enter into a recognisance to prosecute such charge.
(2) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any offence with respect to which
it is provided that any offender may not be arrested without warrant.
(3) For the purposes of this section the expression felony, misdemeanour and simple
offence shall have the same meanings as they have in the Criminal Code.
25. Power to arrest without havi ng warrant i n possession
Any warrant lawfully issued by a court for apprehending any person charged with any
offence may be executed by any police officer at any time notwithstanding that the war-
rant is not in his possession at that time, but the warrant shall, on the demand of the per-
son apprehended, be shown to him as soon as practicable after his arrest.
26. S ummons es
Any summons lawfully issued by a court may be served by any police officer at any
time during the hours of daylight.
27. Bail of pers on arrested without warrant
When a person is arrested without a warrant, he shall be taken before a magistrate
who has jurisdiction with respect to the offence with which he is charged or is empow-
ered to deal with him under section 484 of the Criminal Procedure Act as soon as practic-
able after he is taken into custody: [Cap. C41.J ]
Provided that any police officer for the time being in charge of a police station may
inquire into the case and-
(a) except when the case appears to such officer to be of a serious nature, may
release such person upon his entering into a recognisance, with or without
sureties, for a reasonable amount to appear before a magistrate at the day, time
and place mentioned in the recognisance; or
(b) if it appears to such officer that such inquiry cannot be completed forthwith,
may release such person on his entering into a recognisance, with or without
sureties for a reasonable amount, to appear at such police station and at such
times as are named in the recognisance, unless he previously receives notice in
writing from the superior police officer in charge of that police station that his
attendance is not required, and any such bond may be enforced as if it were a
recognisance conditional for the appearance of the said person before a magis-
trate.
28. Power to search
(1) A superior police officer may by authority under his hand authorise any police of-
ficer to enter any house, shop, warehouse, or other premises in search of stolen property,
and search therein and seize and secure any property he may believe to have been stolen,
in the same manner as he would be authorised to do if he had a search warrant, and the

property seized, if any, corresponded to the property described in such search warrant.
(2) In every case in which any property is seized in pursuance of this section, the per-
son on whose premises it was at the time of seizure or the person from whom it was taken
if other than the person on whose premises it was, may, unless previously charged with
receiving the same knowing it to have been stolen, be summoned or arrested and brought
before a magistrate to account for his possession of such property, and such magistrate
shall make such order respecting the disposal of such property and may award such costs
as the justice of the case may require.
(3) Such authority as aforesaid may only be given when the premises to be searched
are, or within the preceding twelve months have been, in the occupation of any person
who has been convicted of receiving stolen property or of harbouring thieves, or of any
offence involving fraud or dishonesty, and punishable by imprisonment.
(4) It shall not be necessary on giving such authority to specify any particular prop-
erty, provided that the officer granting the authority has reason to believe generally that
such premises are being made a receptacle for stolen goods.
29. Power to detai n and search sus pected persons
A police officer may detain and search any person whom he reasonably suspects of
having in his possession or conveying in any manner anything which he has reason to
believe to have been stolen or otherwise unlawfully obtained.
30. Power to take fi ngerpri nts
(1) It shall be lawful for any police officer to take and record for the purposes of
identification the measurements, photographs and fingerprint impressions of all persons
who may from time to time be in lawful custody:
Provided that if such measurements, photographs and fingerprint impressions are
taken of a person who has not previously been convicted of any criminal offence, and
such person is discharged or acquitted by a court, all records relating to such measure-
ments, photographs and fingerprint impressions shall be forthwith destroyed or handed
over to such person.
(2) Any person who shall refuse to submit to the taking and recording of his meas-
urements, photographs or fingerprint impressions shall be taken before a magistrate who,
on being satisfied that such person is in lawful custody, shall make such order as he
thinks fit authorising a police officer to take the measurements, photographs and finger-
print impressions of such person.
PA RT V
Property unclaimed, found or otherwise
31. Court may mak e orders wi th res pect to property i n possession of police
(1) Where any property has come into the possession of the police as unclaimed
property or property found or otherwise, a court of summary jurisdiction may, on appli-
cation either of a member of the police force or by a claimant of the property, either order
the delivery of the property to the person appearing to the court to be the owner thereof
or, if the owner cannot be ascertained, make such order with respect to the property as to
the court may seem meet.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1) of this section and subject to
the provisions of subsection (2) of this section and of section 32 of this Act, an order
made under the said subsection (1) with respect to any property the owner of which can-
not be ascertained may direct-
(a) in the case of property that has not previously been sold in pursuance of sec-
tion 32 of this Act, that the property be sold; and
(b) in any case, that the proceeds of sale be paid into the Police Reward Fund, af-
ter deduction of the cost (if any) of the sale and of any sum which the court
may direct to be paid as a reward to any person by whom the property was de-
livered into the possession of the police.
(3) An order under this section shall not affect the right of any person to take within
six months from the date of the order legal proceedings against any person in possession
of the property delivered by virtue of the order for the recovery of the property, but on the

expiration of those six months the right shall cease.
32. Perishabl e articles
Where the property is a perishable article or its custody involves unreasonable ex-
pense or inconvenience it may be sold at any time, but the proceeds of sale shall not be
disposed of until they have remained in the possession of the police for six months; and
in any other case the property shall not be sold until it has remained in the possession of
the police for six months.
PA RT VI
Miscellaneous provisions
33. The Police Reward Fund
(1) There shall be established a fund to be called "the Police Reward Fund" (in this
section referred to as "the Fund") into which shall be paid the following-
(a) all pay forfeited by order of a superior officer on members of the Force for
offences against discipline;
(b) all fines levied for assaults on members of the Force;
(c) one third of any fees paid by members of the public in respect of extracts from
reports of accidents made by the police;
(d) one third of any fees paid in accordance with standing orders for the services
of police officers who would otherwise be off duty;
(e) all sums ordered to be paid into the Fund under section 31 (2).
(2) Subject to the rules for the time being in force under section 23 of the Finance
(Control and Management) Act with respect to disbursements from the Fund, the Fund
shall be applied at the discretion of the Inspector-General for any of the following pur-
poses, that is to say-
[Cap. F26.]
(a) to reward members of the Force for extra or special services;
(b) for procuring comforts, conveniences or advantages for members of the Force
which are not authorised to be paid for out of moneys provided by the Federal
Government;
(c) for payment of ex gratia compassionate gratuities to widows or children of
deceased members of the Force;
(d) for making ex gratia payments towards the funeral expenses of any member of
the Force who dies in the service of the Force.
34. Crying down credi t
A superior police officer shall, upon first arrival at any place where police are to be
stationed, cause public proclamation to be made that if the inhabitants suffer constables to
contract debts, such debts are not recoverable from their due or accruing pay and will not
be discharged by the officers.
35. Pay of constabl es not to be wi thhel d for debt: excepti on
The pay of any constable shall not be withheld upon any civil process except in re-
spect of any debt or liability which he may have incurred within three years next before
being appointed to the Force, and for such debt or liability when constituted by decree his
pay may be withheld to an extent not exceeding one half of any monthly payment
thereof; and when an order for payment of such debt or satisfaction of such liability is
made, the court making the order shall give due notice thereof to the superior police offi-
cer in charge of the detachment to which the judgment debtor belongs, and thereupon the
amount ordered shall be stopped out of the judgment debtor's pay until the amount of the
decree is made good:
Provided that no amount shall be withheld on an order made by a native tribunal.
36. Police officers not to eng age i n any pri vate business
No member of the Force shall, while he holds such appointment, engage in any pri-
vate business or trade, without the written consent of the Nigeria Police Council or any
person to whom such power is delegated.
PA RT VII

Offences
37. Offences
(1) Any pol ice officer other than a superior police officer who-
(a) begins, raises, abets, countenances, or excites mutiny;
(b) causes or joins in any sedition or disturbance whatsoever;
(c) being at any assemblage tending to riot, does not use his utmost endeavour to
suppress such assemblage;
(d) coming la the knowledge of any mutiny, or intended mutiny or sedition, does
not without delay give information thereof to his superior officer;
(e) strikes or offers any violence to his superior officer, such officer being in the
execution of his duty;
(f) deserts or aids or abets the desertion of any constable from the Force; or
(g) on enlistment falsely states that he has not been convicted or imprisoned for a
criminal offence or that he was never employed by the Government of the
Federation or Government of any State,
shall be liable to imprisonment for two years.
(2) Any police officer may be proceeded against for desertion without reference to
the time during which he may have been absent, and thereupon may be found guilty, ei-
ther of desertion or of absence without leave:
Provided that a police officer shall not be convicted as a deserter or of attempting
to desert unless the court shall be satisfied that there was an intention on the part of such
officer either not to return to the Force, or to escape some particular important s ervice.
38. Apprehensi on of deserters
Upon reasonable suspicion that any person is a deserter, any constable or other person
may apprehend him and forthwith bring him before a court having jurisdiction in the
place wherein he was found, which may deal with the suspected deserter or remand him
to a court having jurisdiction in the place in which he has deserted.
39. Assaul t on police officer
Every person who assaults, obstructs or resists any police officer in the execution of
his duty, or aids or incites any other person so to assault, obstruct or resist any police of-
ficer or any person aiding or assisting such police officer in the execution of his duty,
shall be guilty of an offence and, on summary conviction thereof before a magistrate,
shall be liable to a penalty of fifty naira or to imprisonment for a term of six months.
40. Refusing to ai d police officer assaul ted
If any person is called upon to aid and assist a police officer who is, while in the exe-
cution of his duty, assaulted or resisted or in danger of being assaulted or res isted, and
such person refuses or neglects to aid and assist accordingly, he shall be guilty of an of-
fence and, on summary conviction thereof before a magistrate, shall be liable to a penalty
of fifty naira or to imprisonment for a term of six months .
41. Harbouri ng constabl e
Every person who knowingly harbours or entertains, or, either directly or indirectly,
sells or gives any intoxicating liquor to, any constable when on duty, or permits any such
constable to abide or remain in his house (except in case of extreme urgency); and any
person who, by threats or by offer of money, gift, spirituous liquors, or any other thing,
induces or endeavours to induce any constable to commit a breach of his duty as consta-
ble or to omit any part of such duty, shall be guilty of an offence and, on summary con-
viction thereof before a magistrate, shall be liable to a penalty of ten naira or to be im-
prisoned for a term of one month.
42. Pers onati on of poli ce officer
Every person not being a police officer who puts on or assumes either in whole or in
part, the dress, name, designation, or description of any police officer or any dress, name
or designation, resembling and intended to resemble the dress, name or designation of
any police officer, or in any way pretends to be a police officer, for the purpose of ob-

taining admission into any house or other place, or of doing any act which such person
would not by law be entitled to do of his own authority, shall be guilty of an offence and,
on summary conviction thereof before a magistrate, shall be liable to a penalty of N200
or to imprisonment for a term of one year.
43. Obtai ni ng admission i nto Force by fraud
(1) Any person who knowingly uses or attempts to pass off any forged or false cer-
tificate, character, letter, or other document for the purpose of obtaining admission into
the Force, or who, on applying for enlistment, shall make any false answer to any ques-
tion which shall be put to him by a police officer, shall be guilty of an offence and, on
summary conviction thereof before a magistrate, shall be liable to imprisonment for a
term of six months.
(2) Any police officer may arrest without warrant any person whom he reasonably
believes to be guilty of an offence against this section.
44. Ordi nary course of l a w not to be i nterfered with
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to exempt any police officer from being pro-
ceeded against by the ordinary course of law when accused of any offence punishable
under any other Act or law.
45. Pers ons acqui tted by court not punishable on same charge under this Act, nor i f
convicted, except by reducti on
(1) No person who has been acquitted by a court of any crime or offence shall be
tried on the same charge or suffer any punishment on account thereof under this Act.
(2) If any member of the Force has been convicted by a court of any crime or of-
fence, he shall not be liable to be punished for the same offence under this Act, otherwise
than by reduction in rank or grade or by dismissal from the Force.
PA RT VIII
Regulations and standing orders
46. Power to make reg ul ati ons
The President may make regulations on the recommendation of ....... -
(a) the Nigeria Police Council with respect to the policy, organisation and admini-
stration of the Force, including establishments and financial matters, other than
pensions within the meaning of the Pensions Act;
[Cap. P4.]
(b) the Police Service Commission with respect to appointments to offices in the
Force, promotion, transfer, dismissal and disciplinary control of officers.
47. S tandi ng orders
(1) The President may make standing orders for the good order, discipline and wel-
fare of the Force after consultation with-
(a) the Nigeria Police Council with respect to the policy, organisation and admini-
stration of the Force, including establishment and financial matters other than
pensions within the meaning of the Pensions Act;
[Cap. P4.]
(b) the Police Service Commission with respect to any matter relating to appoint-
ments to offices in the Force, promotion, transfer, dismissal and discipline of
members of the Force.
(2) The Police Service Commission, with the approval of the President, may make
such standing orders as they may think fit and proper with respect to any matter relating
to the duties and operational control of the Force.
(3) Such standing orders shall be binding upon all police officers but need not be
published in the Federal Gazette.
PA RT IX
Application
48. Application of Act to persons already serving
All the provisions of this Act shall extend to all persons who, at the commencement

of this Act shall be serving in a police force established under an Act repealed by this Act
as if such persons had been appointed under this Act, and service under any such repealed
Act shall, for the purposes of gratuities and pension, be deemed to be service under this
Act.
PA RT X
Special constables
49. The Nigeria Special Constabulary
(1) There shall continue to be a Nigeria Special Constabulary (in this Act called "the
special constabulary").
(2) The special constabulary shall be, and be deemed always to have been, part of the
Nigeria Police Force, and accordingly references in this Act to the police force estab-
lished under this Act shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, include, and be deemed
always to have included, references to the special constabulary.
(3) The special constabulary shall consist of-
(a) special constables appointed in normal circumstances under section 50 of this
Act; and
(b) such emergency special constables as may be appointed from time to time un-
der section 4 of this Act.
(4) In so far as any enactment (whether passed or made before or after the com-
mencement of this Act) requires police officers to perform military duties or confers
power (whether expressly or in general terms) to require police officers to perform such
duties, that enactment shall not, in the absence of express provision to the contrary, ex-
tend to members of the special constabulary.
50. Appointment of special constables in normal circumstances
(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, the competent authority may appoint as a
special constable any person (whether male or female) who-
(a) has attained the age of21 years but has not attained the age of fifty years; and
(b) is of good character and physically fit; and
(c) has signified his willingness to serve as a special constable.
(2) The President shall, from time to time, by notice published in the Federal Gazette
fix the maximum number of persons who may at anyone time hold appointments under
this section; and a person shall not be appointed as a special constable under this section
if his appointment would cause the number for the time being so fixed to be exceeded.
(3) Before fixing any number under subsection (2) of this section, the President shall
obtain from the Nigeria Police Council a recommendation with respect thereto.
(4) Subject to subsection (2) or this section, the Inspector-General may from time to
time-
(a) with the approval of the President fix the maximum number of persons who
may at anyone time hold appointments under this section in any territory; and
(b) at his own discretion fix the maximu m number of persons appointed under this
section who may at anyone time hold any particular rank in the special con-
stabulary in any territory,
and may, in either case, fix different numbers with respect to different territories; and it
shall be the duty of every competent authority to secure that the numbers fixed under this
subsection are not exceeded.
(5) Every special constable appointed under this section-
(a) shall be appointed to serve as a special constable for one year or such longer
period as may be agreed between him and the authority by whom he is ap-
pointed, and shall on appointment sign an engagement in the prescribed form
to serve as a special constable for that period;
(b) shall be appointed in respect of the police Area Command or, where there is no
police Area Command, the police division in which he resides or is employed;
(c) shall within the territory in which the police area in respect of which he is ap-
pointed is situated, but not elsewhere, have the powers, privileges and immu-

nities of a police officer; and
(d) subject to the provisions of this Act, shall be a member of the Nigeria Police
Force for all purposes:
Provided that a special constable appointed in respect of a police area within the
Federal Capital Territory, Abuja shall have the powers, privileges and immunities of a
police officer not only within the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja but also within any
police area adjacent to the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja.
(6) A special constable appointed under this section shall have such rank as may be
assigned to him by the competent authority; and where the rank of assistant superintendent
or any high rank is assigned to a special constable under this subsection, the assigning
authority shall cause notice thereof to be published in the Federal Gazette.
(7) A special constable appointed under this section may within three months before
the end of his first or any subsequent period of engagement, and with the permission of
the competent authority, re-engage to serve for a further period of one year or such longer
period as may be agreed between him and that authority and, if he does so, his appoint-
ment under this section shall be deemed to have been extended accordingly; and without
prejudice to the right of the competent authority to refuse permission in any case, a per-
son shall not be permitted to re-engage under this subsection unless he would, if not al-
ready a special constable, be qualified for appointment as such under subsection (1)
above.
(8) Every special constable appointed under this section shall, on appointment, be is-
sued with a certificate of appointment in the prescribed form, and on the determination of
his appointment (whether by the passage of time or under section 51 of this Act) shall be
issued with a certificate of discharge in the prescribed form.
(9) In relation to constables appointed under this section-
(a) section 16 hereof (which relates to the making of a declaration on enlistment or
re-engagement) shall have effect as if for the reference to enlistment there
were substituted a reference to appointment; and
(b) section 17 of this Act (which relates to re-engagement) shall not apply.
51. Resignati on, sus pension and dis missal of constables appointed under section 50
(1) A special constable appointed under section 50 of this Act may at any time give
to the superior police officer in charge of the police area in respect of which he is ap-
pointed notice in writing to the effect that he desires to resign his appointment on a date
(not being less than fourteen days later than the date on which the notice is given) men-
tioned in the notice.
(2) On receipt of a notice under the foregoing subsection the superior police officer in
question shall refer it to the competent authority; and if, but only if, the competent
authority consents to the notice having effect, the appointment of the special constable by
whom the notice was given shall determine on the date mentioned in the notice or the
date on which he is notified that the competent authority has given his consent under this
subsection, whichever is the later.
(3) The competent authority may at any time, for reasons appearing to him to be suf-
ficient, by notice in writing forthwith suspend or determine the appointment of any spe-
cial constable appointed under section 50 of this Act and may, if he thinks fit, do so with-
out informing the special constable of the reasons for his action, but shall in every case
immediately report his action and the reasons therefor to the Inspector-General.
(4) A special constable whose appointment is suspended or determined under sub-
section (3) of this section otherwise than by the Nigeria Police Council, may appeal
against the suspension or determination to the competent authority; and any such appeal
shall be heard and determined by the competent authority to whom it is made.
(5) Any delegation of the powers of the Nigeria Police Council under subsections (3)
and (4) of this section shall be such as to secure that in every case the competent authority
having power to hear and determine an appeal under subsection (4) of this section is a
police officer of higher rank than the police officer against whose action the appeal is
brought.
52. Appointment of emergency s pecial constables

(1) If at any time the Commissioner of Police for a State is satisfied, as regards any
police area in that State, that an unlawful assembly or riot or breach of the peace has
taken place or may reasonably be expected to take place in that area, or that by reason of
other special circumstances it is necessary in the public interest for emergency special
constables to be appointed in respect of that area, he may authorise the superior police
officer in charge of that area or any chief superintendent of police to appoint persons
resident or employed in that area (whether male or female) as emergency special con-
stables.
(2) An authorisation under this section need not be in writing, but must specify the
maximum number of emergency special constables who may be appointed under that
authorisation.
(3) Where a superior police officer proposes to appoint any person as an emergency
special constable under an authorisation given under this section, he shall cause to be
served on that person a notice in the prescribed form requiring him to present himself at a
time and place specified in the notice for appointment as an emergency special constable.
(4) Every person on whom a notice is served under subsection (3) of this section shall
present himself at the time and place specified in the notice and shall there, on being re-
quired to do so by the superior police officer proposing to appoint him, make and sign a
promise in the prescribed form to serve as an emergency special constable until such time
as his appointment is determined under this section; and immediately after he has made
and signed that promise, the superior police officer shall hand to him a document in the
prescribed form appointing him as an emergency special constable in respect of the po-
lice area to which the authorisation under which he is being appointed relates.
(5) Every emergency special constable appointed under this section-
(a) shall, in the police area in respect of which he is appointed, but not elsewhere,
have the powers, privileges and immunities of a police otficer; and
(b) subject to the provisions of this Act, shall be a member of the Nigeria Police
Force for all purposes and shall accordingly be subject to the provisions of this
Act.
(6) The superior police officer in charge of the police area in respect of which an
emergency special constable is appointed may at any time, and shall if so directed by the
Commissioner of Police for the State in which that police area is situated, by notice in
writing forthwith, or with effect from a future date specified in the notice, determine the
emergency special constable's appointment; and on the determination of his appointment
under this section an emergency special constable shall be issued with a certificate of
discharge in the prescribed form.
(7) Any person who without reasonable excuse (proof of which shall lie on him)-
(a) refuses or fails to comply with the requirements of a notice served on him un-
der subsection (3) of this section; or
(b) refuses to make and sign a promise to serve on being required to do so under
subsection (4) of this section,
shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding forty naira.
(8) The foregoing provisions of this section shall apply in relation to the Federal
Capital Territory, Abuja as they apply in relation to a State, subject to the modification
that, in relation to the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja any reference to the Commis-
sioner of Police shall be construed as a reference to the Inspector-General of Police.
(9) The foregoing provisions of this section shall have effect subject to section 53 (2)
and (3) of this Act.
53. Provisions supplementary to section 52
(l) The Commissioner of Police for a State or the Inspector-General-
(a) on giving an authorisation under section 52 of this Act, shall forthwith inform
the President of his action and of the circumstances which led him to take it,
and shall as soon as possible cause notice of the giving of the authorisation to
be published in the appropriate Gazette; and
(b) as soon as possible after all emergency special constables appointed under that
authorisation have been discharged, shall cause notice of that fact to be pub-
lished in the appropriate Gazette.

In this subsection "the appropriate Gazette", in relation to the Commissioner of Po-
lice for a State means the State Gazette, and in relation to the Inspector-General means
the Federal Gazette.
(2) The President may by order published in the Federal Gazette declare persons of
any class or description specified in the order to be exempt from appointment as emer-
gency special constables under section 52 of this Act, and the power to appoint persons as
emergency special constables under that section shall not extend to persons of any class
or description for the time being so specified.
(3) Any power to make or determine appointments under or by virtue of section 52 of
this Act shall be exercisable only while there is in force the necessary delegation of that
power by the Nigeria Police Council.
(4) Section 16 of this Act (which requires certain police officers on enlistment to
make and subscribe the police declaration prescribed by the Oaths Act) and section 17 of
this Act (which relates to re-engagement) shall not apply to emergency constables.
[Cap. 01.]
54. Equipment
(1) The Inspector-General may provide for use by special constables such batons,
clothing and other equipment as he considers necessary for the proper carrying out of
their duties.
(2) Any expenses incurred by the Inspector-General under this section shall be de-
frayed out of moneys provided by the Federal Government.
55. Instruction of s peci al constables
(1) Regulations made by virtue of section 46 (a) of this Act with respect to the or-
ganisation and administration of the Force shall not require special constables to attend
for instruction on more than four days in anyone month or for periods amounting in the
aggregate to more than 24 hours in anyone month.
(2) Any person responsible for giving instruction to special constables under regula-
tions made as aforesaid shall have regard as far as possible to the convenience of special
constables who are to attend for instruction and also, where applicable, to that of the em-
ployers of such special constables.
56. All owances, pensions, etc.
(1) Except as expressly provided by this section or by regulations made by virtue of
subsection (3) of this section, a person's service as a special constable shall not render
him or any other person eligible for any pay, allowance, pension or gratuity under this
Act or the Pensions Act.
[Cap. P4.]
(2) A special constable shall have no claim on the Police Reward Fund established
under section 33 of this Act and shall not as such be entitled to occupy living accommo-
dation provided at the public expense.
(3) Regulations made by virtue of section 46 (a) of this Act may provide for allow-
ances to be paid to special constables-
(a) in respect of expenses incurred by them in connection with their attendance at
periods of instruction;
(b) as compensation for loss of earnings during periods of full-time duty; and
(c) in respect of the use by special constables of or of this subsection the rank of
inspector of their own vehicles while on full-time duty,
but shall not provide for the payment of any other allowances to special constables; and
the amount of any such allowance as is mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) of this subsec-
tion shall be fixed by the regulations, and shall not be calculated by reference to the ac-
tual expenses or loss of earnings of the person to whom it is payable.
(4) Without prejudice to the generality of the said section 46 of this Act, regulations
thereunder may make provision for enabling any such allowance as is mentioned in sub-
section (3) of this section to be withheld by a superior police officer if, in his opinion,
there are good reasons for withholding it.
(5) Subject to subsection (7) of this section, section 6 of the Pensions Act (which
contains corresponding provisions applicable to police officers above the rank of con-

stable) shall apply to special constables as they apply to regular police officers.
[Cap. P4.]
(6) Subject to subsection (7) of this section, paragraphs (1) and (2) of regulation 24 of
the repealed Pensions Regulations (which make provision for the payment of pensions to
officers in respect of permanent injuries received while on duty) shall apply to special
constables as they apply to regular police officers, so however that, for the purposes of
the application of those paragraphs to special constables, references to retirement shall be
construed as references to retirement from employment other than employment as a spe-
cial constable.
(7) If a special constable is killed or sustains injuries at a time when he holds some
other office in the public service of the Federation or of a State, his duty as a special con-
stable shall, for the purpose of the Pensions Act, be deemed to form part of his duty as the
holder of that other office, and subsections (5) and (6) of this section shall not apply in
his case.
(8) Any pension granted by virtue of subsection (5) or (6) of this section shall be
subject to the provisions of the Act under which it is granted and shall be liable to cease
or be otherwise dealt with accordingly.
(9) In this section, "regular police officer" means a police officer who is neither a
special constable nor a supernumerary police officer.
57. Interpretation
In this Part, except where the context otherwise requires, the following expressions
have the meanings hereby assigned to them respectively, that is to say-
"competent authority", in relation to any power to appoint special constables, or to
approve their re-engagements, or to suspend or determine their appointments, or to assign
ranks to or exercise disciplinary control over special constables, or to hear their appeals
against suspension or dismissal, means the Nigeria Police Council or any superior police
officer or inspector to whom the power in question has by notice published in the Federal
Gazette been delegated in accordance with the Constitution of the Federal Republic of
Nigeria 1999, and any such notice may, as regards any such power, make different provi-
sion with respect to different ranks in the special constabulary;
[Cap. C23.]
"emergency special constable" means an emergency special constable appointed
under section 52 of this Act;
"police area" means any police province, police district or police division;
"police Area Command"46
"police district" and "police division" mean respectively a police Area Command,
police district or police division established under the provisions of standing orders made
under section 47 of this Act;
"prescribed" means prescribed by regulations made under section 46 of this Act;
"special constable" includes an emergency special constable;
"territory" means a State or the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja.
58. Repeal and transitional provisions
(1) The Special Constables Act 1959 is hereby repealed, and Government Notice
No. 1598 (Approval of Maximum Personnel Establishment) dated 30th July, 1960 and
the Special Constables (Training and Allowance) Regulations 1960, are hereby revoked.
(2) Subject to subsections (1) and (4) of this section, anything done under or by virtue
of the Special Constables Act shall be deemed to have been done under or by virtue of
the corresponding provision of this Act; and anything begun under or by virtue of the said
Act of 1959 may be continued under or by virtue of this Act as if begun under or by vir-
tue of this Act.
(3) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (2) of this section, any person
who immediately before the commencement of this Act held an appointment as a special
constable under the Special Constables Act shall be deemed to have been appointed un-
der and in accordance with the corresponding provisions of this Act on the date and for

the period on or for which he was actually appointed; and service under that Act shall, for
the purposes of any pension for which a special constable is eligible by virtue of this Act,
be deemed to be service under this Act.
(4) Nothing in this Act shall affect any pension which was before the commencement
of this Act granted under the Special Constables Act; and the provisions of that Act shall
continue to apply to any pension so granted as if this Act had not been made.
PA RT XI
Traffic warden service
59. Establishment of the Traffic Warden Service
(l) There is hereby established a Traffic Warden Service (in this Act referred to as
"the warden service").
(2) The warden service shall consist of traffic wardens appointed from time to time
under this Act.
(3) The warden service shall be a part of the Nigeria Police Force, and accordingly
references to the police force established under this Act shall, subject to the provisions of
this Act, include references to the warden service.
(4) Notwithstanding subsection (3) of this section, in so far as any enactment
(whether passed or made before or after the commencement of this Act) requires police
officers to perform military duties, or confers any power on any person (whether ex-
pressly or in general terms) to require police officers to perform such duties, that enact-
ment shall not, in the absence of express provision to the contrary, extend to traffic war-
dens.
(5) Traffic wardens shall be employed to discharge functions normally undertaken by
the police in connection with the control and regulation of, or the enforcement of the law
relating to, road traffic and shall in that connection act under the direction of the police.
(6) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing subsection, a traffic warden
shall be required to deal inter alia with the following, that is to say-
(a) general control and direction of motor traffic on the highway;
(b) assisting pedestrians to cross the road; and
(c) controlling vehicles stopping or parking in unauthorised places.
60. Appointment of traffic wardens
(l) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any enactment, the Inspector-General
is hereby vested with the power to appoint, confirm such appointment, promote, transfer,
dismiss or exercise any disciplinary control over any traffic warden.
(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a person may be appointed a traffic warden
if he-
(a) is not less than nineteen nor more than 21 years of age;
(b) is in possession of a minimum educational qualification of primary six;
(c) is not less than 167.64 centimetres and 162.56 centimetres tall respectively for
men and women;
(d ) in the case of men, has not less than 86.36 centimetres chest measurement
when fully expanded;
is of good character and is physically fit; and (e)
(3) The President shall, from time to time, by notice published in the Federal Gazette,
fix the maximum number of persons who may at anyone time hold appointments under
this Act; and a person shall not be appointed as a traffic warden if his appointment would
cause the number for the time being so fixed to be exceeded.
has signified his willingness to serve as a traffic warden.

61. Peri od of ser vi ce
(1) Every traffic warden appointed under this Act shall be appointed to serve as a
traffic warden for a period of one year; and only in the police province, district or divi-
sion in which he resides.
(2) Such a traffic warden may, subject to satisfactory conduct and service, be re-
appointed for further periods of three years each until the expiration of the tenth year of
his appointment in the warden service when he may elect to determine his appointment or
elect that his service be allowed to continue until he is 55 years of age.
62. Powers, etc., of a traffic warden
A traffic warden appointed under this Act shall, when on duty, in uniform and within
the police province, district or division in which he is appointed to serve, but not else-
where, have the powers, privileges and immunities of a police officer under any law re-
lating to the regulation of road traffic.
63. Certifi cate of appoi ntment and of discharg e
Every traffic warden shall, on first appointment, be issued with a certificate of ap-
pointment in a form approved by the Inspector-General and on the determination of that
or any subsequent appointment (whether by effluxion of time or under section 10 of this
Act) shall in like manner be issued with a certificate of discharge.
64. Ranks of traffi c war dens
A traffic warden shall have such rank as may be assigned to him by the Inspector-
General within the following grades, that is-
(a) Traffic Warden Grade III;
(b) Trartic Warden Grade II,
(c) Traffic Warden Grade I;
(d) Senior Traffic Warden.
65. Resignati on
(1) A traffic warden appointed under this Act may at any time give to any superior
police officer under whom he is serving, notice in writing of his intention to resign his
appointment on a date mentioned in the notice (not being less than 28 days later than the
date on which the notice is given).
(2) On receipt by the superior police officer of the notice referred to in subsection (1)
of this section, the superior police officer shall immediately thereafter refer such notice to
the Commissioner having control over him and the traffic warden, and if the Commis-
sioner consents to the notice having effect, the appointment of the traffic warden shall
determine accordingly.
(4) Before fixing any number under subsection (3) of this section, the President shall
obtain from the Nigeria Police Council recommendation with respect thereto.
(5) The Inspector-General may from time to time-
(a) with the approval of the President, fix the maximum number of traffic wardens
who may at anyone time hold appointments in any State;
(b) at his own discretion fix the maximu m number of traffic wardens who may at
anyone time hold any particular rank in the warden service in any State; and
(c) in either case fix different numbers with respect to different States.
(6) I n relation to traffic wardens appointed under this Act-
(a) section 16 of this Act (which relates to the making of a declaration for enlist-
ment or re-engagement) shall have effect as if for the reference to enlistment or
re-engagement there were substituted respectively a reference to appointment
or re-appointment; and
(b) the form of the police declaration prescribed by the Oaths Act shall be adapted
by the substitution-
[Cap.OI.]
(i) for the words "police officer" where they occur in the fifth line, of the
words "a traffic warden"; and
(ii) for the words from "for the preservation of peace" to the end of the
declaration, of the words "to discharge all the duties of my office ac-
cording to law".

66. Disci pli ne
(1) In so far as the context so admits, but subject to the provisions of this Act, a traf-
fic warden shall be subject to the provisions of the Police Regulations for purposes of
discipline.
(2) In the application to traffic wardens of the Second Schedule to the Police Regula-
tions, references to Constables, Corporals, Sergeants and Inspectors shall include respec-
tively references to Traffic Wardens Grade III, Traffic Wardens Grade II, Traffic War-
dens Grade I and Senior Traffic Wardens.
67. Provisi on of equi pment
(1) The Inspector-General may provide for use by the traffic wardens such equip-
ments as he considers necessary for the proper carrying out of the duties of traffic war-
dens under this Act.
(2) Any expenses incurred by the Inspector-General under this section shall be de-
frayed out of moneys provided by the Federal Government.
68. Deleg ati on of po wer by Ins pector-General
The Inspector-General may delegate any of his powers under this Act to the Commis-
sioner of a State or the Commandant of a police college (except this power of delegation)
so that the delegated powers may be exercised by the delegate with respect to the matters
or class of matters specified or defined in the instrument of delegation.
69. Instructi on of traffic warden, etc.
(1) Every person appointed into the warden service shall be required to undergo a
course of training at the traffic training school of a police college for a period of twelve
weeks or such other or further period as the Inspector-General may determine.
(2) A traffic warden appointed under this Act shall have allocated to him a service
number with the letters "TW" and the service numbers of all traffic wardens employed in
the Federation shall appear on the register kept for that purpose by the Inspector-General.
(3) It shall be the duty of every traffic warden to whom a service number has been
allocated under subsection (2) of this section, whenever on duty to wear such service
number on the shoulder tlaps of his uniform.
SUBSIDIARY LEGIS LATION