2. Extension of Magistrates Court Jurisdiction for the trial of offences created under
this Act

(1) It is hereby declared that any of the States ofthe Federation in which the ports speci-
fied in the Schedule to this Act are situate shall have power to cause-

(a) the extension of the jurisdiction of the Chief Magistrates Courts (in this Act re-
ferred to as "the Court") existing in that State to the trial of offences created by
this Act;

(2) The Governor of the State concerned may, on the recommendation of the Chief Judge
of the State, by notice in writing appoint the Chief Magistrates as may be necessary for the
purpose of carrying out the intention of this Act.

(3) The rules of procedure applicable in the Magistrates Courts in that State in which the
ports exist shall apply to all matters under this Act.

(4) Where no rules of procedure exist in dealing with a particular situation or no ade-
quate provisions are contained in the rules, the Court shall adopt such procedure, as it may
deem fit under the circumstances.

3. Summary trial

Any person who commits an offence under this Act shall be brought before the Court and
the Court shall have power to summarily dispose of the matter and impose such penalties as
provided under this Act.

4. Penalties

Notwithstanding anything contained in any of the applicable Courts' rules of procedure,
any person who contravenes any of the provisions of subsection (4) of section 1 of this Act
is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction-

(a) to a fine of N10,000 or imprisonment for a term of six months or to both such fine
and imprisonment;

(b) on second or subsequent conviction, to imprisonment for a term of twelve months;

(c) to a fine of N 1,000 for each day or part of a day for which the offence referred to
in subsection (4) (b) of section 1 of this Act continues.

5. Sittings

(1) Subject to the provisions of the applicable Courts' rules of procedure, the Court shall
be opened throughout the year except on Sundays and public holidays for the transaction of
any pending matter over which it has jurisdiction.

(2) Provisions shall be made for the hearing of any matter brought before the Court to
be expeditiously and immediately dealt with.

6. Power of Minister to give directives

The Minister shall give such directives as may be necessary for the purpose of carrying
out the intendment of this Act.

7. Interpretation

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibilities for matters relating to trans-
port or the Minister charged with responsibility for aviation as the case may be;

"passenger or traveller" includes the crew, staff and officers of ships, aircraft, etc.;

"ports" includes any sea port, airport, inland port, container terminal, customs formation

as listed in the Schedule to this act;

"premises" includes the premises comprising the ports and such other locations within
the vicinity of the ports as shall be designated by the appropriate authority of the Federal
Government as areas comprising the ports;

"such other persons as may be authorised" includes persons licenced to transact busi-
ness at duty free shops and such other similar location provided within the vicinity of the
ports referred to in the Schedule to this Act.

8. Short title

This Act may be cited as the Ports (Related Offences, etc.) Act.