1. Price Control Board

(1) There shall continue to be a Price Control Board, which shall consist of-

(a) the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Commerce who shall be chair-
man and Chief Price Controller;

(b) a representative of the Federal Ministry of Industry;

(c) the chairman or a representative of the National Salaries, Income, Wages
Commission;

(d) the Chief Statistician of the Federation;

(e) six representatives of the States as nominated by the Governor of the State
concerned and appointed by the Minister for two years, so however that each
State is sometime represented on the Board and that no two of them shall come
from the same State;

(f) one representative of consumers' associations in Nigeria; and

(g) two representatives from outside the civil services of the Federation or of the
States.

(2) The members of the Board under paragraphs (f) and (g) of subsection (1) of this
section shall be appointed by the Minister with the approval of the President and shall
hold office on such terms and on such conditions as the Minister may with the like ap-
proval determine.

(3) There shall be an Executive Secretary to the Board who shall be a public officer
in the Federal Ministry of Commerce.

2. Price Control Committees

(1) There shall continue to be for each State a Committee to be known as the Price
Control Committee.

(2) The Committee in each State shall consist of-

(a) the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Trade and Industries of the State,
who shall be chairman of the Committee and State Price Controller;

(b) the Commissioner of Police for the State, or his representative;

(c) the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Information of the State, or his represen-

tative; and

(d) two other persons to be appointed by the State Commissioner for Trade and
Industries.

(3) The representative in the State of the Federal Ministry of Commerce, shall be the
secretary to the Committee.

(4) It shall be the principal function of the Committee to advise and assist the Board
on the implementation of this Act in the State for which the Committee is established.

(5) If in any State any office mentioned in subsection (2) above does not exist, the
paragraph in question shall be construed as referring to the office which in the opinion of
the Governor most nearly corresponds to the office so mentioned.

3. Provisions supplemental to sections 1 and 2

(1) Subject to any directions given by the Minister, the Board and each Committee
may fix its own quorum and otherwise regulate its own procedure.

(2) There may be paid to the members of the Board or any Committee, not being
members who are public officers, such remuneration and allowances (if any) as the Min-
ister may decide.

(3) The validity of any proceedings of the Board or a Committee shall not be affected

by-

(a) any vacancy in its membership;
(b) any defect in the appointment of any member; or
(c) the fact that a person not entitled to do so took part in the proceedings.

Imposition of price control, offences, etc.

4. Imposition of price control

(1) Price control shall continue to be imposed in accordance with this Act on any
goods which are of the kind specified in the First Schedule to this Act.

[First Schedule.]

(2) The Board may by order add any goods to the said First Schedule or delete any
goods therefrom.

5. Fixing of controlled price

(1) The Board may by notice published in the Federal Gazette--

(a) fix a basic price for any controlled commodity in accordance with subsec-
tion (2) of this section; and

(b) fix the permitted variation for the commodity in respect of any State in accord-
ance with subsection (3) of this section.

(2) The basic price is the price which in the opinion of the Board properly repre-
sents-

(a) in the case of goods produced in Nigeria, the cost of production of the com-
modity plus the manufacturer's profit; and

(b) in the case of imported goods, the duty-paid landed cost in Nigeria plus the

importer's profit.

(3) The permitted variation, in relation to any particular commodity, is the amount
representing transport and other costs plus the distributor's profit which in the opinion of
the Board ought properly to be added to the basic price in order to represent a fair con-
trolled price (wholesale or retail, as the case may be) in any State.

6. Prohibition of sale above controlled price

(1) If shall be unlawful for any person to sell, agree to sell or offer to sell any or em-
ploy any other person, whether or not that other person is of full age, to sell any con-
trolled commodity at a price which exceeds the controlled price.

(2) If any person contravenes subsection (1) of this section in respect of any con-
trolled commodity-

(a) he shall be guilty of an offence and shall-

(i) in the case of a retailer, be liable to a fine of not less than N200 and not
more than N2,000 or to imprisonment for not less than six months, or
to both such fine and imprisonment; and

(ii) in the case of a manufacturer, wholesaler or major distributor, be liable
to a fine of not less than N 1,000 and not more than N10,000, or to im-
prisonment for not less than twelve months, or to both such fine and
imprisonment; and

(b) the stock of the controlled commodity shall be liable to forfeiture.

(3) Where a person is convicted of any offence under subsection (2) of this section in
respect of any commodity the court shall make an order forfeiting the stock of the com-
modity; and, where such an order is made, the commodity shall be disposed of by the
Board as it thinks fit, any proceeds of the disposal being paid into the Consolidated
Revenue Fund of the Federation.

(4) Where proceedings under subsection (2) of this section do not result in conviction
the court shall make an order for the disposal at the controlled price of any commodity to
which the proceedings relate and the proceeds of such disposal shall be applied as fol-
lows-

(a) ninety per cent of the proceeds shall be paid to the owner of the commodity;

(b) the remaining ten per cent shall be paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund of
the Federation.

(5) For the purposes of subsection (1) of this section where any person employed by
another to sell any controlled commodity is proved to have sold the commodity at any
price which exceeds the controlled price, the employer of that person shall, notwith-
standing anything to the contrary in any law or rule of law, be deemed to have employed
that other person to sell the commodity concerned at the price at which it was in fact sold.

7. Hoarding

(1) If-

(a) a person carrying on a business in the course of which controlled commodities
of any description are normally sold has in his possession in the course of that
business a stock of controlled commodities of that description; and

(b) that person, or any person employed by him to sell goods in the course of that
business, when asked by any other person (referred to in this section as "the
buyer") to sell any controlled commodity of that description or whether he or,
as the case may be, his employer has any such commodity for sale-

(i) refuses to sell the commodity in question, or denies that he (or, as the
case may be, his employer) has the commodity, or uses any words or
gives any other indication calculated to lead the buyer to suppose that
he (or, as the case may be, his employer) has not got the commodity or
will not or cannot sell it; or

(ii) offers to sell the commodity subject to a condition requiring the buying
of any other goods (whether controlled commodities or not) or the
making of any payment in respect of any service, or subject to any
other condition except delivery within a reasonable time,

the person carrying on the business shall be guilty of an offence.

(2) It shall be a defence for a person charged with an offence under subsection (1) of
this section in respect of any controlled commodity to prove that the sale of the commod-
ity, or the sale of the commodity without the fulfillment of a condition proposed by him
or his employee, would, having regard to the quantity of the commodity which he or his
employee was requested to sell or any other consideration, involve a breach of some
written and duly stamped contractual obligation lawfully binding on him, which obliga-
tion must be to an approved institution.

(3) For the purposes of subsection (2) of this section, an "approved institution"
means a hospital, school, educational institution, statutory corporation or any department
or agency of the Government of the Federation or of a State.

(4) Where a person is convicted of an offence under subsection (1) of this section in
respect of any controlled commodity of any description-

(a) he shall-

(i) in the case of an individual, be sentenced to imprisonment for not less
than six months without the option of a fine; and

(ii) in the case of a body corporate be sentenced to a fine of not less than
N 5,000; and

(b) the stock of controlled commodities shall be liable to forfeiture.

(5) Where a person is convicted of any offence under this section in respect of any
commodity the court shall make an order forfeiting the stock of the commodity; and
where such an order is made, the commodity shall be disposed of by the Board as it
thinks fit, any proceeds of the disposal being paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund of
the Federation.

(6) Where proceedings under subsection (1) of this section do not result in conviction

the court shall make an order for the disposal at the controlled price of any commodity to
which the proceedings relate and the proceeds of such disposal shall be applied as fol-
lows-

(a) ninety per cent of the proceeds shall be paid to the owner of the commodity;

(b) the remaining ten per cent shall be paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund of
the Federation.

8. Resale price maintenance

(1) The Minister may on the recommendation of the Board and in relation to any
commodity, including any commodity in respect of which price control is imposed under
this Act, by order approve any resale price maintenance agreement or arrangement en-
tered into by the manufacturer, importer or distributor of that commodity on the one
hand, and the seller (whether a wholesaler or retailer) of that commodity on the other.

(2) An order under subsection (1) of this section shall specify the commodity to
which the approved resale price maintenance agreement or arrangement relates and the
maximum price at which the commodity affected is to be sold under the agreement or
arrangement.

(3) Where an order under subsection (1) of this section is in force, it shall be unlaw-
ful for any person to sell, agree to sell or offer to sell any commodity to which an ap-
proved resale price maintenance agreement or arrangement relates otherwise than in ac-
cordance with the terms of the agreement or arrangement.

(4) If any person contravenes subsection (3) of this section-

(a) he shall be guilty of an offence and shall-

(i) in the case of a retailer, be liable to a fine of not less than N200 and not
more than N 2,000 or to imprisonment for not less than six months, or
to both such fine and imprisonment; and

(ii) in the case of a wholesaler, be liable to a fine of not less than N1 ,000
and not more than N100,000, or to imprisonment for not less than
twelve months, or to both such fine and imprisonment; and

(b) the stock of the commodity shall be liable to forfeiture.

(5) Where a person is convicted of any offence under this section in respect of any
commodity the court shall make an order forfeiting the stock of the commodity; and
when such an order is made, the stock of the commodity shall be disposed of by the
Board as it thinks fit, any proceeds of the disposal being paid into the Consolidated
Revenue Fund of the Federation.

(6) Where proceedings under subsection (4) of this section do not result in conviction
the court shall make an order for the disposal at the controlled price of any commodity to
which the proceedings relate and the proceeds of such disposal shall be applied as fol-
lows-

(a) ninety per cent of the proceeds shall be paid to the owner of the commodity;

(b) the remaining ten per cent shall be paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund of
the Federation.

9. Enforcement staff

(l) Subject to this Act, the Executive Secretary of the Board shall have the duty of
supervising the enforcement of the orders of the Board.

(2) Subject to subsection (3) of this section, public officers may be appointed by the
Minister to be inspectors for the purposes of this Act and when so appointed shall be
designated in such manner as may from time to time be approved by the Board.

(3) Every Secretary of a local government shall be ex officio an inspector (designated
in such manner as may from time to time be approved by the Board) for the area in re-
spect of which he was appointed.

(4) Every inspector shall be under the direction and control of the State Price Con-
troller who in turn shall be responsible to the Chief Price Controller and, without preju-
dice to any other power conferred by this Act, the Chief Price Controller, the State Price
Controller or an inspector may-

(a) enter and inspect any premises in the occupation or under the control of any
manufacturer, wholesaler or retailer; or

(b) examine any books, accounts or other documents relating to the trade or busi-
ness of any manufacturer, wholesaler or retailer; or

(c) require any manufacturer, wholesaler or retailer to furnish any information in
relation to his trade or business; or

(d) conduct on behalf of the Board any civil or criminal proceedings arising under
this Act; or

(e) do any other thing necessary or expedient for the proper discharge of his func-
tions.

(5) Any person who knowingly obstructs the Chief Price Controller, the State Price
Controller or an inspector in the exercise of his functions shall be guilty of an offence and
liable on conviction to a fine of not less than N200 and not more than N2,OOO or to im-
prisonment for not less then six months, or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(6) The powers conferred by subsection (4) of this section are additional to and not in
derogation of any powers conferred on any person by any other enactment, and accord-
ingly (without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing) nothing in that subsection or
any other provision of this Act shall prevent-

(a) the conduct on behalf of the Board of any civil or criminal proceedings by a
legal practitioner; or

(b) the conduct on behalf of the Board of any criminal proceedings by a police
officer.

(7) Any person who falsely represents himself to any other person as an inspector or
as an officer designated as such by the Board under this section shall be guilty of an of-
fence and liable on conviction to imprisonment for three years.

10. Duty to furnish information to the Board; penalty

(1) The Board may by an instrument request any manufacturer or importer of any
controlled commodity to furnish such information relating to that commodity as the

Board may specify, and may by that instrument specify the time, manner and form in

which such information is to be furnished and it shall be the duty of any such person to
comply with the request.

(2) Any person, who-

(a) refuses or neglects to give any information which the Board may require pur-
suant to subsection (1) of this section or which may be required by an inspec-
tor under subsection (4) (c) of section 9 of this Act; or

(b) in respect of the request makes any statement which he knows to be false or
which he has no reason to believe to be true,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine of not less than
N 200 or imprisonment for not less than six months.

11. Seizure of goods suspected of being liable to forfeiture

(1) Where an inspector not below the rank of assistant price inspector has reasonable
grounds to believe that any controlled commodity has become liable to forfeiture under
section 6 or 7 of this Act-

(a) he may at any time and without warrant seize and detain the commodity and, if
he does so, shall forthwith report the fact to the Committee; and

(b) the Second Schedule to this Act shall apply in relation to the seizure.

[Second Schedule.]

(2) Every police officer shall, if called upon by an inspector to whom subsection (1)
of this section applies, give the inspector all reasonable assistance in the implementation
of subsection (1) of this section; and every officer in charge of a police station shall, if so
called upon, provide such facilities as are reasonably possible for the safe custody of any
commodity seized or detained under this section.

12. Requisition and sealing of premises

(1) Where an inspector has reasonable grounds to believe that any premises have
been, are being or will or might be used directly or indirectly for the purpose of frustrat-
ing the operation of this Act, he may requisition and seal the premises in question.

(2) Where an inspector acts under subsection (1) of this section-

(a) he shall report his action to the Committee within 24 hours;

(b) any person aggrieved by the action-

(i) may appeal to the Committee, which may confirm or cancel the action;
and

(ii) may make a second or further appeal to the Committee in respect of the
same matter if more than twelve weeks have passed since a previous
appeal; and

(c) the requisitioning and sealing shall last for three months in the first instance
and may be extended by the Committee for further periods of three months at a
time, so however that the total period of requisitioning and sealing shall not
exceed twelve months

(3) Notwithstanding subsection (2) of this section, upon receipt or a report under that
subsection in respect of any premises which have been requisitioned and sealed up, the
Committee may direct that any commodity found therein which in its opinion is of a per-
ishable nature shall be destroyed or disposed of at such time and in such manner as the
Committee thinks fit:

Provided that any controlled commodity which is to be sold under the Foregoing
provisions of this subsection shall be sold at the controlled price.

(4) The proceeds of the disposal of any commodity under subsection (3) of this section shall be applied as follows-

(a) eighty per cent of the proceeds shall be paid to the owner of the commodity;
and

(b) the remaining twenty per cent shall be paid into the consolidated Revenue
Fund of the Federation.

(5) Any person who knowingly and without reasonable excuse breaks a seal affixed
under subsection (1) of this section shall be guilty of an offence and on conviction shall
be liable to a fine of not less than N5, 000 or to imprisonment for not less than two years.

13. Court order preventing habitual offender from carrying on business concern-
ing controlled commodity

(1) On the second or any subsequent occasion on which any person carrying on the
business of manufacturer, importer, wholesaler or retailer of any controlled commodity is
convicted of any offence under this Act the court on an application made by the Board
shall make an order preventing, for such period not less than two years as the court may
specify in the order, that person from carrying on or being directly or indirectly con-
cerned in that business and cancelling any licence or permit (however described) whereby
that person is authorised to do so.

(2) If any person contravenes any provision of an order made under subsection (1) of
this section he shall be guilty of an offence and on conviction shall be liable to a fine of
not less than N2000 or to imprisonment for not less than three years or to both such fine
and imprisonment.

14. Offences by bodies corporate

Where any offence under this Act by a body corporate is proved to have been com-
mitted with the consent or connivance of, or to be attributable to any neglect on the part
of any director, manager, secretary or other similar officer, servant or agent of the body
corporate (or any person purporting to act in any such capacity), he as well as the body
corporate shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and may be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

Trial of offences

15. Trial of offences

(1) The Chief Judge of a State shall for the purpose of the trial of offences under this
Act, or regulations made thereunder, constitute a separate division of the High Court of
the State which shall be presided over by a judge of the High Court of that State and

which shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any law, by virtue of this section
have jurisdiction to try offences under this Act committed in any part of the State con-
cerned, and to make such orders as may be required under this Act.

(2) The division of the High Court constituted pursuant to subsection (1) of this sec-
tion shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary as aforesaid, be engaged exclusively
on the trial of offences and the hearing of applications and other matters arising from the
operation of this Act, and shall consist of such number of judges (who, for the avoidance
of doubt, shall sit separately) as the Chief Judge may determine and such judges shall sit
in such places within the State concerned as the Chief Judge may, from time to time,
direct.

(3) Offences under this Act shall be triable summarily by the division of the High
Court constituted pursuant to subsection (1) of this section, and the provisions of Chap-
ter VI of the Criminal Procedure Act or Law or, where applicable,of Chapter XVIII of
the Criminal Procedure Code Law shall apply in relation to the trial of the offences.

[Cap. C41. Cap. 30 of N.N.]

(4) It shall be the duty of a court before whom an accused is brought under this sec-
tion to ensure that the offence is tried and finally disposed of within 28 days of the date
on which the accused was first brought before such court.

Miscellaneous

Exclusion of personal liability

No personal liability in respect of any act done in good faith and in proper execution
of his official duties in pursuance or in purported pursuance of this Act shall be incurred
by any member of the Board or a Committee, the Chief Price Controller, the State Price
Controller, any inspector or any police officer.

Regulations

The Minister may with the approval of the President make such regulations as may, in
the opinion of the Minister, be required for carrying into effect the objectives of this Act
and generally to facilitate the implementation of this Act and, without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing, the regulations may make provisions-

(a) with respect to any matter pertaining to the sale of any commodity, whether or
not the commodity is subject to price control under this Act;

(b) prescribing penalties not exceeding a fine of N200 or imprisonment for six
months for any contravention of the regulations.

Interpretation

(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"Board" means the Price Control Board established by this Act;

"Committee" means a Price Control Committee established by this Act in relation to
a State;

"controlled commodity" means any goods specified in the First Schedule to this Act
or any class of any such goods;

"controlled price" in relation to a controlled commodity, means the controlled price,
wholesale or retail, fixed in accordance with section 5 of this Act;

"court" means a special division of the High Court of a State constituted pursuant to
section 15 of this Act;

"inspector" means any inspector, however designated, who is an inspector by virtue
of section 9 of this Act and includes the Chief Price Controller and a State Price Control-
ler but does not include any person appointed to any grade below that of assistant price
inspector;

"Minister" means the Minister responsible for commerce;

"premises" includes premises which consist of part of larger premises.
(2) In this Act, the reference, in relation to any commodity, to-

(a) a major distributor of that commodity is a reference to a seller of that com-
modity who obtains his stock of the commodity directly from the manufacturer
or importer of that commodity;

(b) a wholesaler of that commodity is a reference to any seller of that commodity
engaged whether exclusively or not, in the selling of that commodity in quan-
tities other than those in which the commodity is ultimately normally sold to
the consumer or user of the commodity; and

(c) a retailer of that commodity is a reference to the seller of that commodity who
is neither a major distributor nor a wholesaler.

19. Short title, repeal, savings, etc.

(1) This Act may be cited as the Price Control Act.
(2) The Price Control Act is hereby repealed.

(3) Without prejudice to section 6 of the Interpretation Act nothing in this Act shall
invalidate or otherwise prejudicially affect any appointment made or price fixed under the
repealed enactments; and any such appointment or price, if it was effective immediately
before the commencement of this Act, shall thereafter have effect as if it had been val idly
made or fixed under this Act.

[Cap. 123.]