1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Quarantine Act.
2. Interpretation
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-
"dangerous infectious disease" means cholera, plague, yellow fever, smallpox and
typhus, and includes any disease of an infectious or contagious nature which the Presi-
dent may, by notice, declare to be a dangerous infectious disease within the meaning of
this Act;
"local area" means a well-defined area, such as a local government area, a depart-
ment, a canton, an island, a commune, a town, a quarter of a town, a village, a port, an
agglomeration, whatever may be the extent and population of such areas.

3. Power to declare any place an infected local area
The President may, by notice, declare any place whether within or without Nigeria to
be an infected local area, and thereupon such place shall be an infected local area within
the meaning of this Act.
4. Regulations
The President may make regulations for all or any of the following purposes-
(a) prescribing the steps to be taken within Nigeria upon any place, whether within
or without Nigeria, being declared to be an infected local area;
(b) prescribing the introduction of any dangerous infectious disease into Nigeria or
any part thereof from any place without Nigeria, whether such place is an in-
fected local area or not;
(c) preventing the spread of any dangerous infectious disease from any place
within Nigeria, whether an infected local area or not, to any other place within
Nigeria;
(d) preventing the transmission of any dangerous infectious disease from Nigeria
or from any place within Nigeria, whether an infected local area or not, to any
place without Nigeria;
(e) prescribing the powers and duties of such officers as may be charged with car-
rying out such regulations;
(f) fixing the fees and charges to be paid for any matter or thing to be done under
such regulations, and prescribing the persons by whom such fees and charges
shall be paid, and the persons by whom the expenses of carrying out any such
regulations shall be borne, and the persons from whom any such expenses in-
curred by the Government may be recovered;
(g) generally for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this Act.
5. Penalties
Any person contravening any of the regulations made under this Act shall be liable to
a fine of N200 or to imprisonment for a term of six months or to both.
6. Provision of sanitary stations
The President and within each State, the Governor thereof, may provide such sanitary
stations, buildings and equipment, and appoint such sanitary anchorages as he may think
necessary for the purposes of this Act.
[LN. 131 of 1954]
7. Jurisdiction of magistrates
Proceedings for imposing any fine or imprisonment under this Act or for recovering
any expenses incurred or charged by the Government in carrying out the provisions of
this Act may be commenced before and determined by any magistrate.

8. State quarantine and powers
If and to the extent that any declaration under section 2 or 3 or this Act has not been
made, and to the extent that regulations under section 4 of this Act have not been made
by the President, power to make any such declaration and to make such regulations may
be exercised in respect of a State, by the Governor thereof as fully as such power may be
exercised by the President, and subject to the same conditions and limitations.
[LN. 131 of 1954.1