1. Establishment of Small and Medium Scale Enterprises Development Agency of
Nigeria
(1) There is established an agency to be known as the Small and Medium Scale En-
terprises Development Agency of Nigeria (in this Act referred to as "the Agency").
(2) The Agency-
(a) shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal; and
(b) may sue and be sued in its corporate name.
2. Establishment and membership of the Governing Board
(1) There is established for the Agency a Governing Board consisting of a Chairman
and six other part-time members to be appointed by the President.
(2) The appointment of the seven part-time members shall be made from the six geo-
political zones.
(3) The following are ex officio members of the Board-
(a) (i) the Federal Ministry of Industry;
(ii) the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology;
(iii) the National Planning Commission;
(iv) the Agricultural or Industrial Research Institutes;
(v) the Indigenous Fabricators and Manufacturers of Machinery;
(vi) the Federal Ministry of Finance;
(vii) the Development Banks for Small and Medium Scale Industries;
(viii) the Bank of Industry;
(ix) the Manufacturers' Association of Nigeria;
(x) the National Association of Small Scale Industries (NASSI); and
(b) the Director-General of the Agency.
(4) There shall be a Secretary to the Board who shall be appointed by the Board.
3. Schedule
The supplementary provisions set out in the Schedule to this Act shall have effect
with respect to the proceedings of the Board and other matters contained therein.
[Schedule.]

4. Tenure of office, etc.
The Chairman and members of the Board, other than ex officio members-
(a) shall hold office for a period of four years on such terms and conditions as
may
be specified in their letter of appointment; and
(b) may be reappointed for another period offour years and no more.
5. Removal of members from office
(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 4 of this Act, a member may at any
time be removed from office by the President for inability to discharge the functions of
his office (whether arising from infirmity of mind or body or any other cause) or for
misconduct.
(2) A member of the Board may resign his appointment by a notice in writing under
his hand, addressed to the President and that member shall, on the date of the receipt of
the notice by the President, cease to be a member of the Board.
6. Emoluments, etc.
A member of the Board shall be paid such emoluments, allowances and benefits as
the Minister may, with the approval of the President, from time to time, approve.
7. Disclosure of interest
(1) A member of the Board who is directly or indirectly interested in any matter be-
ing deliberated on by the Board or is interested in any contract made or proposed to be
made by the Agency shall, as soon as possible after the relevant facts have come to his
knowledge, disclose the nature of his interest at a meeting of the Board.
(2) A disclosure under subsection (1) of this section shall be recorded in the Minutes
of Meetings of the Board and members concerned shall-
(a) not, after the disclosure, take part in any deliberation or decision of the Board;
and
(b) be excluded for the purpose of constituting a quorum of any meeting of the
Board for any deliberation or decision with regard to the subject matter in re-
spect of which his interest is so disclosed.
PART II
Functions and Powers of the Agency
8. Functions of the Agency
The Agency shall be responsible for-
(a) initiating and articulating ideas for small and medium scale industries policy
thrusts;
(b) serving as a vanguard agency and focal point for rural industrialisation, pov-
erty alleviation and eradication, technology acquisition and adaptation, job
creation and sustainable livelihood;
(c) promoting and facilitating development programmes, instruments and support
services to accelerate development, modernisation, networking and linkage of
small and medium scale industries;
(d) mobilising internal and external resources, including technical assistance for
small and medium scale industries, their support institutions, trade associa-
tions, and non-governmental organisation;
(e) overseeing, co-ordinating and monitoring development in the small and me-
dium industries sub-sector;
(f) designing, packaging and promoting cottage and micro small and medium

scale industrial projects;
(g) providing industrial extension services to small and medium scale industries,
fabricators of machinery and beneficiaries of micro-credit loans;
(h) establishing liaison between research institutes, local fabricators and small and
medium scale industries;
(i) linking small scale industrialists to sources of finance, technology,
technical skill development and management;
(j) facilitating and promoting the development of standard designs and
quality
assurance for machinery and equipment, and commercialising them to end-
users;
(k) promoting and providing access to industrial infrastructure, including
estates
and layouts, and incubators;
(l) providing necessary assistance

to small and medium scale industries in the marketing of their products;
(m) promoting ancilarisation, sub-contracting, clustering and networking relationship;
(n) providing and promoting strategic linkages within small and medium scale
industries;
(0) encouraging and promoting strategic linkages within small and medium scale
industries, and between small and medium scale industries and large scale
industries;
(P) establishing and co-ordinating the institutional development and activities of
Industrial Development Centres in Nigeria;
(q) collaborating with the Agricultural Research and Mechanisation Centres and
Agro-industrial Schemes in Nigeria;
(r) liaising with external agencies for support and development of small and me-
dium scale industries in Nigeria;
(s) listing products that small and medium scale industries have substantial inter-
nal capacities to manufacture to meet domestic market for Federal Govern-
ment's patronage and deletion or restriction on the schedule of importable
goods;
(t) recommending to the Federal Government, from time to time, in consultation
with other relevant agencies and organisations, on applicable tax and tariff re-
gimes and other financial incentives for promoting the development of small
and medium scale industries;
(u) monitoring the implementation of and compliance with Federal Government
directives, incentives and facilities for development of small function of the
Agency in order to promote government policies in or outside Nigeria;
(v) carrying out such other activities connected with or incidental to the other
functions of the Agency in order to promote government policies in or outside
Nigeria;
(w) provision of and facilitating technical and managerial training to small and
medium scale industries.
Powers of the Agency
(1) In pursuance of section 8 of this Act, the Agency shall have power to-
(a) demand and obtain relevant information, data and reports on
activities relating to the promotion and development of small and medium scale
industries from banks, research and development institutions and other support
organisation;

(b) enter into a joint-venture arrangement and draw up a memorandum of under-standing and
agreement with relevant institutions and organisations for the promotion and development of
small and medium scale industries; and
(c) do such other things as are necessary for the successful performance of its
function under this Act.
PART III
Staff of the Agency
10. Director-General
(1) There shall be for the Agency, a Director-General who shall be appointed by the
President on the recommendation of the Minister.
(2) The Director-General shall be the Chief Executive of the Agency and be respon-
sible for the execution of the policy and the day to day administration of the Agency.
(3) The Director-General shall hold office-
(a) for a term of five years in the first instance and may be reappointed for a fur-
ther term of five years and no more; and
(b) on such terms and conditions as may be specified in his letter of appointment.
11. Other employees of the Agency
(1) The Board shall appoint for the Agency, such officers and other employees as it
may, from time to time, deem necessary for the purpose of the Agency.
(2) The terms and conditions of service (including remuneration, allowances, benefits
and pensions) of officers and employees of the Agency shall be as determined by the
Board with the approval of the Minister.
12. Pensions and gratuities
(1) The service in the Agency shall be approved service for the purpose of the Pen-
sions Act and accordingly, employees of the Agency shall be entitled to pensions, gratui-
ties and other retirement benefits as are prescribed under the Pensions Act.
[L.F.N. 2004 Cap. P4.]
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, nothing in this Act shall prevent the
appointment of a person to any office on terms which preclude the grant of a pension,
gratuity or other retirement benefit in respect of that office.
(3) For the purpose of the application of the provisions of the Pensions Act, any
power exercisable by a Minister or other authority of the Federal Government, other than
the power to make regulations under section 23 of the Pension Act, is hereby vested in
and shall be exercisable by the Agency and not by any other person or authority.
PART IV
Financial Provisions
13. Funds of the Agency
The Agency shall establish and maintain a fund into which shall be paid and credited-
(a) the take-off grant from the Federal Government;
(b) annual subvention from the Federal Government;
(c) loans and grant-in-aid from national, bilateral and multilateral agencies;
(d) rents, fees and other internally generated revenues from services provided by
the Agency; and
(e) all other sums accruing to the Agency, from time to time.
14. Expenditure of the Agency
The Agency may, from time to time, with the approval of the Board, apply the pro-
ceeds of the fund establ ished in pursuance of section 13 of this Act-
(a) to the cost of administration of the Agency;
(b) to the paying of the emoluments, allowances and benefits of members of the
Board and for reimbursing members of the Board or of any committee set up
by the Board for such expenses as may be expressly authorised by the Board;

(c) to the payment of the salaries, fees or other remuneration and benefits or al-
lowances, gratuities and pensions, and other benefits payable to the officers
and other employees of the Agency;
(d) for the development and maintenance of any property vested in or owned by
the Agency; and
(e) for and in connection with all or any of its functions under this Act or in such
other securities as may, from time to time, be approved by the Minister.
15. Annual estimates and accounts
(1) The Agency shall, not later than 31 st August in each year, submit to the Minister
an estimate of its expenditure and income (including payments to the Agency fund) for
the next succeeding years.
(2) The Agency shall keep proper records in relation to those accounts in respect of
each year and shall cause its accounts to be audited within six months after the end of
each year by an auditor appointed from the list in accordance with guidelines supplied by
the Auditor-General of the Federation.
16. Annual reports
The Agency shall prepare and submit to the Federal Executive Council, through the
Minister, not later than six months after the end of each year a report in such form as he
may direct on the activities of the Agency during the immediate proceeding year, and
shall include in such report a copy of the audited accounts of the Agency for that year and
the auditor's report on the accounts.
17. Power to accept gift
(l ) The Agency may accept any gi ft of land, money or other property on such terms
and conditions, if any, as may be specified by the person or organisation making the gift.
(2) The Agency shall not accept any gift if the conditions attached by the person or
organisation offering the gift are inconsistent with the functions of the Agency and the
provisions of the Independent Corrupt Practices and Allied Offences Commission
Act, 2000.
Power to borrow
(1) The Agency may, from time to time, borrow by overdraft or otherwise such sums
as it may require for the performance of its functions under this Act.
(2) The Agency shall not, without the approval of the Minister, borrow money which
exceeds, at any time, the amount set by the Minister.
(3) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, where the sum to be borrowed is
in foreign currency, the Agency shall not borrow the sum without the prior approval of
the Minister and in consultation with the Central flank of Nigeria.
19. Investment
The Agency may, subject to the provisions of this Act and the conditions of any trust
created in respect of any property, invest all or any of its funds in any security prescribed
by the Trustee Investments Act or in such other securities as may, from time to time, be
approved by the Minister.
[L.F.N. 2004 Cap. T22.]
20. Exemption from tax
(1) The Agency shall be exempt from the payment of Income Tax on any income ac-
cruing from investment made by the Board for the Agency or otherwise.
(2) The provisions of any enactment relating to the taxation of companies on trust
fund shall not apply to the Agency or the Board.
PART V
Legal Proceeding
21. Limitations of suits against the Agency, etc.
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the provisions of the Public Officers Protec-

tion Act shall apply in relation to any suit instituted against any officer or employee of
the Agency.
[L.F.N. 2004 Cap. P41.]
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other enactment, the suit against a
member of the Board or the Director-General or any other officer or employee of the
Agency for any act done in pursuance or execution of this Act or any other enactment or
law, or of any public duty or authority in respect of any alleged neglect or default in the
execution of this Act, shall lie or be instituted in any court unless it is commenced-
(a) within three months next after the act, neglect or default complained of; or
(b) in the case of a continuation of damage or injury, within six months next after
the ceasing thereof.
(3) No suit shall be commenced against a member of the Board or the Director-
General or any other officer or employee of the Agency before the expiration of a period
of one month after written notice of the intention to commencement the suit shall have
been served on the Agency by the intending plaintiff or his agent.
(4) The notice referred to in subsection (3) of this section shall clearly and explicitly
state the cause of action, the particulars of the claim, the name and place of abode of the
intending plaintiff and the reliefwhich he claims.
22. Service of documents
A notice, summons or other document required or authorised to be served on the
Agency under the provisions of this Act or any other enactment or law may be served by
delivering it to the Director-General or at the principal office of the Agency.
23. Restriction on execution against property of the Agency
(1) In any action or suit against the Agency, no execution or attachment of process in
the nature thereof shall be issued against the Agency unless not less than thirty days no-
tice of the intention to execute or attach has been given to the Agency.
(2) Any sum of money which by the judgment of any court has been awarded against
the Agency shall, subject to any direction given by the Court where notice of appeal
against the judgment has been given, be paid from the fund of the Agency.
24. Indemnity of officers
A member of the Board or the Director-General or any officer or employee of the
Agency shall be indemnified out of the assets of the Agency against any liability incurred
by him in defending any proceeding, whether civil or criminal, if the proceeding is
brought against him in his capacity as a member, Director-General, officer or other em-
ployee of the Agency.
25. Secrecy
(1) A member of the Board or the Director-General or any officer or employee of the
Agency shall-
(a) not for his personal gain, make use of any information, which has come to his
knowledge in the exercise or is obtained by him in the ordinary course of his
duty as a member of the Board or as the Director-General, officer or employee
of the Agency;
(b) treat as confidential any information which has come to his knowledge in the
exercise of his power or is obtained by him in the performance of his duties
under this Act;
(c) not disclose any information referred to under paragraph (b) of this subsection,
except when required to do so by a court or in such other circumstances as may
be prescribed by the Board, from time to time.
(2) Any person who contravenes the provision of subsection (1) of this section com-
mits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of not less than, N5O,OOO or impris-
onment for a term not exceeding two years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

26. Directive by the Minister, etc.
The Minister may give to the Agency or the Director-General such directives of gen-
eral nature or relating generally to matters of policy with regard to the exercise of its or

his functions as he may consider necessary and it shall be the duty of the Agency or the
Director-General to comply with the directive or cause them to be complied with.
27. Regulations
The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, make such regulations as in its
opinion are necessary or expedient for giving full effect to the provisions of this Act and
for the due administration of its provisions.
28. Interpretation
In this Act-
"Agency" means the Small and Medium Scale Enterprises Development Agency of
Nigeria establ ished under section 1 of th is Act;
"Board" means the Governing Board established for the Agency under section 2 of
this Act;
"Minister" means the Minister charged with the responsibility for Industries as are
defined by the National Council on Industry as Small and Medium Scale Industries;
"President" means the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
29. Citation
This Act may be cited as the Small and Medium Scale Enterprises Development
Agency Act, 2003.