1. S hort ti tl e
This Act may be cited as the Stamp Duties Act.
[54 & 55. Viet. C. 38 (s. 27) L.N. 131 of 1954.]
2. Interpretati on
In this Act unless the context so requires-
"Accountant-General " means the Accountant-General of the Federation;
"co mmissioner" means a commissioner of stamp duties appointed as hereinafter pro-
vided;
"die" includes any plate, type, tool, or implement whatever used under the direction
of the Minister of Finance or his counterpart in the State, as the case may be, for ex-
pressing or denoting any duty, or rate of duty, or the fact that any duty, or rate of duty or
penalty has been paid, or that an instrument is duly stamped, or is not chargeable with
any duty, or for denoting any fee, and also any part of any such plate, type, tool or im-
plement;
"duty" means any stamp duty for the time being chargeable under this or any other
Act and also includes any fee chargeable hereunder;
"executed" and "executi on" with reference to instruments not under seal, mean
signed and signature;
"Go vern ment" includes the Government of the Federation or of a State and any de-
partment thereof, local government council, and an officer acting in his official capacity
on behalf of the Government of the Federation or of a State or any department thereof, or
of a local government area, and not on behalf of a private person;
"i nstrument" includes every written document;
"marketabl e securi ty" includes a security of such a description as to be capable of
being sold in any stock market;
"materi al " includes every sort of material upon which words or figures can be ex-
pressed;
"money" includes all sums expressed in naira or in any foreign currency;
"sta mp" means a stamp impressed by means of a die as an adhesive stamp for de-
noting any duty or fee;
"sta mped" with reference to instruments and material, applies as well to instruments
and material impressed with stamps by means of a die as to instruments and material
having adhesive stamps affixed thereto;

"stock" includes any share in any stocks transferable at the Central Bank of Nigeria,
promissory notes, and any share in the stocks or funds of any foreign State or Govern-
ment, or in the capital stock or funded debt of any local authority, corporation, company
or society in Nigeria or of any foreign corporation, company, or society;
"write", "wri tten" and "wri ting " include every mode in which words or figures can
be expressed upon material.
PA RT 1
Provisions applicable to instruments generally
Charge of duty upon instruments
3. Charge of duties in Schedule
(1) From and after the commencement of this Act, the duties to be charged upon the
several instruments specified in the Schedule to this Act shall be the several duties set out
in the said Schedule, which duties shall be in substitution for the duties heretofore
chargeable under the enactments repealed by this Act and shall be subject to the exemp-
tions contained in this Act and in any other Act for the time being in force.
[L.N. 49 of 1961. L.N. 131 of 1954. L.N. 112 of 1964. Schedule.]
(2) The duties charged under this Act shall be accounted for in a manner to be pre-
scribed in proper case by the Minister after consultation with the Governors of the States.
(3) The functions under this Act shall be respectively confined to matters in respect
of which the Government of the Federation and the Government of such State shall be
competent to make laws:
Provided that nothing herein shall be interpreted as preventing the appointment by
the President and by a Governor of the same person to be both a Federal and a State
commissioner under section 6 of this Act.
4. Stamping and collection of duties on corporate instruments
(1) The Federal Government shall be the only competent authority to impose, charge
and collect duties upon instruments specified in the Schedule to this Act if such instru-
ment relates to matters executed between a company and an individual, group or body of
individuals.
(2) The State Governments shall collect duties in respect of instruments executed
between persons or individuals at such rates to be imposed or charged as may be agreed
with the Federal Government.
(3) In this section, "company" includes banks and other financial institutions.
5. Manner of denoting duty
(1) All duties for the time being chargeable under the provisions of this Act upon any
instruments shall be paid and denoted according to the provisions in this Act, and, except
where express provision is made to the contrary in this Act or by the regulations made
thereunder, are to be denoted by impressed stamps only.

(2) Where the duty may be denoted by adhesive stamps, postage stamps may, subject
to the provisions of any Act or regulation, be used for the purpose.
(3) Every instrument written upon stamped material shall be written in such a man-
ner, and every instrument partly or wholly written before being stamped shall be so
stamped, that the stamp shall appear on the face of the instrument and cannot be used or
applied to any other instrument written upon the same piece of material.
(4) No impressed or embossed stamp or stamps made by means of a die shall be used
in any manner except upon the document upon which it was originally impressed, em-
bossed or stamped.
(5) The amount of the duty upon any instrument may be denoted by several stamps,
and stamps of greater value than is required may be used upon any instrument.
Appointment of commissioners
6. Commissioners of stamp duties
(l) The relevant Civil Service Commission may appoint one or more officers who
shall be commissioners of stamp duties and shall have the care and management of the
duties to be taken under this Act.
lL.N. 131 of 1954.]
(2) Except as otherwise provided by this Act or by any law for the time being in
force, any decision, act or thing required to be made or done by a commissioner may be
made or done by anyone of the said commissioners when there are more than one com-
missioners.
(3) When appointing a commissioner, the President or Governor, as the case may be,
may signify that the duty of such commissioner shall be confined to adjudication under
section 15 of this Act.
7. Disconti nuance and issue of dies
(1) Until discontinued as provided in this section, the dies for impressed revenue
stamps in use at the coming into force of this Act shall continue to be used, and the com-
missioners may, from time to time, procure new dies of the same design.
[L.N. 131 of 1954.]
(2) No die of new design of impressed revenue stamp shall be used without the ap-
proval of the Minister or Governor, as the case may be, and a notification of such ap-
proval shall be published in the Federal Gazette at least one month before such new die
shall be used.
(3) The Minister or Governor, as the case may be, may by notice in the Federal Ga-
zette determine to discontinue the use of any die for the use of a revenue stamp and pro-
vide a new die to be used in lieu thereof: then from and after any day to be stated in the
notice (such day not being within one month after the same is so published) the new die
shall be the only lawful die for denoting the duty chargeable in any case in which the
discontinued die would have been used; any and every instrument first executed by any
person, or bearing date after the day so stated, and stamped with the discontinued die,
shall be deemed to be not duly stamped:

Provided that-
(a) if any instrument stamped as last aforesaid, and first executed after the day so
stated at any place out of Nigeria is brought to a commissioner within 21 days
after it has been received in Nigeria, then, upon proof of the facts to the satis-
faction of the commissioner, the stamps thereon shall be cancelled and the in-
strument shall be stamped with the same amount of duty by means of the law-
ful die, without the payment of any penalty;
(b) all persons having in their possession any material stamped with the discontin-
ued dies, and which by reason of the providing of such new die has been ren-
dered useless, may, at any time within six months after the day stated in the
notice, send the said material to the Accountant-General who shall cause the
stamp on such material to be cancelled and refund the amount of duty paid
upon such material.
8. Instruments to be separately charged with duty in certai n cases
Except where express provision to the contrary is made by this or any other Act-
(a) an instrument containing or relating to several distinct matters shall be sepa-
rately and distinctly charged, as if it were a separate instrument, with duty in
respect of each of such matters;
(b) an instrument made for any consideration or consideration in respect whereof
it is chargeable with ad valorem duty, and also for any further or other valu-
able consideration, or considerations, shall be separately and distinctly
charged, as if it were a separate instrument, with duty in respect of each of the
considerations.
9. Facts and circums tances affecting duty to be set forth in instrument
All the facts and circumstances affecting the liability of any instrument to duty, or the
amount of the duty with which any instrument is chargeable, shall be fully set forth in the
instrument; and every person who, with intent to defraud the Government of the Federa-
tion or of any State-
[L.N. 131 of 1954.]
(a) executes any instrument in which all the said facts and circumstances are not
fully and truly set forth; or
(b) being employed or concerned in or about the preparation of any instrument,
neglects or omits fully and truly to set forth therein all the said facts and cir-
cumstances,
shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of forty naira.
10. Mode of calculating ad valorem duty i n certai n cases
(l) Where an instrument is chargeable with ad valorem duty in respect of-
(a) any money in any foreign currency; or
(b) any stock or marketable security,

the duty shall be calculated on the value, on the day of the date of the instrument, of the
money in United States dollars according to the current rate of exchange, or of the stock
or security according to the average price thereof.
(2) Where an instrument contains a statement of current rate of exchange, or average
rate of exchange, or average price, as the case may require, and is stamped in accordance
with that statement, it shall, so far as regards the subject matter of the statement, be
deemed duly stamped, unless or until it is shown that the statement is untrue, and that the
instrument is in fact insufficiently stamped.
Use of adhesive stamps
11. Cancellati on of adhesi ve stamps
(1) An instrument, the duty upon which is required or permitted by law to be denoted
by an adhesive stamp, shall not be deemed duly stamped with an adhesive stamp unless
the person required by law to cancel such adhesive stamp cancels the same by writing on
or across the stamp his name or initials, or the name or initials of his firm, together with
the true date of his so writing, or otherwise effectively cancels the stamp and renders the
same incapable of being used for any other instrument or for any postal purpose or for
payment of a telegram:
Provided that, when the person required by law to cancel an adhesive stamp is an
illiterate person, the stamp shall be deemed to be sufficiently cancelled, if the mark of
such person, together with the true date of the making thereof, is written on or across
such stamp.
(2) When two or more adhesive stamps are used to denote the duty upon an instru-
ment, each or every stamp shall be cancelled in the manner aforesaid.
(3) Every person who, being required by law to cancel an adhesive stamp, neglects or
refuses duly and effectively to do so in the manner aforesaid, shall be guilty of an offence
and liable on conviction to a fine of twenty naira.
12. Proper ti me for stampi ng i nstruments
Every instrument first executed in Nigeria, which by law may be or is required to be
stamped with an adhesive stamp, shall be stamped on or before its first execution, and
such stamp shall be cancelled by the person by whom the instrument is first executed and,
at the time of such execution:
[28 o f 1941.]
Provided that where an instrument is prepared or attested by or executed before a
commissioner of oaths, a justice of the peace or a notary public, such stamp shall be can-
celled by such commissioner of oaths, justice of the peace or notary public at the time of
its first execution.
13. Penalty for fraud in rel ati on to adhesi ve stamps
(1) If any person-
(a) fraudulently removes or causes to be removed from any instrument any adhe-
sive stamp, or affixes to any other instrument or uses for any postal purpose

any adhesive stamp which has been so removed, with intent that the stamp
may be used again; or
(b) sells or offers for sale, or utters any adhesive stamp which has been so re-
moved, or utters any instrument having thereon any adhesive stamp which has
to his knowledge been so removed as aforesaid,
he shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction in addition to any other fine or
penalty to which he may be liable, to a fine of one hundred naira.
(2) The expression "instrument" in this section, includes a telegram and any postal
article within the meaning of the Nigerian Postal Services Act.
[Cap. NI27.]
Appropriated stamps
14. Appropriated stamps
(1) A stamp which by any word or words on the face of it is appropriated to any par-
ticular description of instrument shall not be used, or if used, shall not be available, for an
instrument of any other description.
(2) An instrument falling under the particular description to which any stamp is so
appropriated as aforesaid shall not be deemed duly stamped, unless it is stamped with the
stamp so appropriated.
Adjudication by a commissioner
15. As to denoting certificate
Where the duty with which an instrument is chargeable depends in any manner upon
the duty paid upon another instrument, the payment of such last-mentioned duty shall,
upon the application to a commissioner, payment of a fee of 26 kobo and production of
both the instruments, be denoted upon such first-mentioned instrument by a certificate
under the hand of the commissioner.
16. The commissioner may be required to express his opinion as to duty
(1) Subject to such regulations as the Minister or Governor, as the case may be, may
think fit to make, a commissioner may be required by any person to express his opinion
with reference to the amount of duty (if any) payable on any executed instrument; and in
such case, a certificate shall be endorsed on the instrument, under the hand of the com-
missioner, stating that, in his opinion, such instrument is not chargeable with any duty, or
the particular amount with which, in his opinion, it is chargeable or, if in his opinion such
is the case, that it is duly stamped:
[26 of 1946.]
Provided that nothing in this section shall extend to any instrument chargeable with
ad valorem duty and made as a security for money or stock without limit; or shall
authorise the stamping after the execution thereof of any instrument which by law cannot
be stamped after execution.
(2) An adhesive stamp for the fee prescribed under sections 15 and 66 of this Act
shall be supplied to the commissioner by the person requiring the certificate at the time

when the application for the certificate is made and such stamp shall be fixed to the in-
strument by the commissioner and cancelled by him prior to giving the certificate.
17. The commissioner may call for and refuse to proceed wi thout evi dence
In any case of application to a commissioner with reference to any instrument, the
commissioner may require to be furnished with such evidence by means of affidavit or
otherwise as he may deem necessary in order to show to his satisfaction whether all the
facts and circumstances affecting the liability of the instrument to duty, or the amount of
the duty chargeable thereon, are fully and truly set forth therein, and may refuse to pro-
ceed upon any such application until such evidence has been furnished accordingly.
18. Persons authorised to take decl arations and affi da vits
Any statutory declaration or affidavit made in pursuance of or for the purposes of this
Act or any other Act for the time being in force relating to stamp duties may be made
before any of the commissioners or any other person authorised by law to administer
oaths.
19. Effect of assessment by commissioner and pay ment of duty in accordance
therewi th
Every instrument bearing a certificate of a commissioner that it is not chargeable with
duty or that it is duly stamped, or being stamped with the amount of duty assessed and
certified by him shall be admissible in evidence and available for all purposes, notwith-
standing any objection relating to duty:
Provided that an instrument upon which the duty has been assessed by a commis-
sioner shall not be stamped otherwise than in accordance with the assessment of the
commissioner.
20. Two commissioners not to adjudicate on same instrument
Any person, other than a public officer in the exercise of his official duties who, after
an instrument has been submitted to a commissioner for his opinion as to the amount of
duty with which the instrument is chargeable, subsequently submits the same instrument
to a different commissioner for an expression of his opinion as to the amount of duty with
which the instrument is chargeable, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine of twenty naira.
21. Persons dissatisfied may appeal.
(1) Any person who is dissatisfied with the assessment of a cornrmssroner may,
within 21 days after the date of the assessment, and on payment of duty in conformity
therewith, appeal against the assessment to the High Court of the State in which the as-
sessment was made and may for that purpose require the commissioner to state and sign a
case, setting forth the question upon which his opinion was required, and the assessment
made by him. [L.N. 47 of 1955.]
(2) The commissioner shall thereupon state and sign a case and deliver the same to
the person by whom it is required, and the case may, within seven days thereafter but not
later, be filed by him in the High Court and thereafter be heard by the said court.

(3) Upon the hearing of the case, the court shall determine the question submitted,
and, if the instrument in question is in the opinion of the court chargeable with any duty,
shall assess the duty with which it is chargeable.
(4) If it is decided by the court that the assessment of the commissioner is wrong, the
court shall assess the correct amount of duty; and
(a) in the event of an excess of duty having been paid in conformity with the erro-
neous decision of the commissioner, any excess of duty which may have been
paid in conformity with such decision, together with any fine or penalty which
may have been paid in consequence thereof, shall be ordered by the court to be
repaid to the appellant, with or without costs as the court may determine; and
(b) in the event of the court assessing an amount of duty greater than that assessed
by the commissioner, the difference between the amount of duty assessed by
the commissioner and the amount assessed by the court together with any fine
or penalty which may have been incurred but not yet paid, with or without
costs as the court may determine, shall be paid by the appellant, forthwith or
within such time as the court may direct, in stamps which shall be affixed to or
impressed on the document in the presence of a commissioner and in the case
of adhesive stamps, cancelled by him.
22. Terms upon which instruments not dul y stamped may be recei ved i n evi dence
(1) Upon the production of an instrument chargeable with any duty as evidence in
any court of civil judicature in Nigeria, or before any arbitrator or referee, notice shall be
taken by the judge, magistrate, arbitrator, or referee of any omission or insufficiency of
the stamps thereon, and if the instrument is one which may legally be stamped after the
execution thereof, it may, on payment to the officer of the court whose duty it is to read
the instrument, or to the arbitrator or referee, of the amount of the unpaid duty, and the
penalty payable on stamping the same, and of a further sum of two naira, be received in
evidence, saving all just exceptions on other grounds.
(2) The officer, or arbitrator, or referee receiving the duty and penalty shall give a re-
ceipt for the same, and make an entry in the proper book kept for the purpose of showing
receipts of money and of the amount thereof, and shall communicate to a commissioner
the name or title of the proceedings in which and of the part from whom, he received the
duty and penalty, and the date and description of the instrument, and shall pay over to the
Accountant-General the money so received by him for the duty and penalty.
(3) On production to the commissioner of any instrument in respect of which any
duty or penalty has been paid, together with the receipt, the payment of the duty and pen-
alty shall be denoted on the instrument.
(4) Except as aforesaid and subject to the provisions of section 90 (3) of this Act, an
instrument executed in Nigeria, or relating, wheresoever executed, to any property situate
or to any matter or thing done or to be done in Nigeria, shall not, except in criminal pro-
ceedings, be given in evidence, or be available for any purpose whatever, unless it is duly
stamped in accordance with the law in force in Nigeria at the time when it was first exe-
cuted.

Stamping of instruments after execution
23. Stamping of instruments after execution
(1) Except where other express provision is made in this Act, any unstamped or in-
sufficiently stamped instrument may be stamped with an impressed stamp at any time
within forty days from the first execution thereof (unless such period of forty days is re-
duced by an order as provided in subsection (7) of this section) upon payment of the duty
or unpaid duty only but after that time the said instrument may only be stamped upon
payment of the unpaid duty and a penalty of twenty naira, and also by way of further
penalty, where the unpaid duty exceeds twenty naira, of interest on such duty, at the rate
of ten per cent per annum, from the day upon which the instrument was first executed up
to the time when the amount of interest is equal to the unpaid duty.
[28 of 1941. L.N. 131 o f 1954. L.N. 112 o f 1964.28 o f 1941.]
(2) Stamps representing the amount of the unpaid duty together with the penalty
shall-
(a) in the case of impressed stamps, be impressed on the instrument; and
(b) in the case of adhesive stamps, be affixed to the instrument,
in the presence of a commissioner, who shall thereupon, in the case of adhesive stamps,
cancel the stamps by writing his initials and the date thereon, and in addition, in the case
of those stamps whether impressed or adhesive which do not clearly indicate that they
represent a penalty, write the word "Penalty" thereon, and any such cancellation shall be
effective for all purposes.
(3) In the case of such instruments hereinafter mentioned as are chargeable with ad
valorem duty, the following provisions shall have effect-
(a) the instrument, unless it is written upon duly stamped material, shall be duly
stamped with the proper ad valorem duty before the expiration of thirty days
after it is first executed, or after it has been first received in Nigeria if it was
first executed at any place outside Nigeria;
(b) if any such instrument executed after the coming into operation of this Act has
not been or is not duly stamped in conformity with the foregoing provisions of
this subsection, the person in that behalf specified in paragraph (c) of this sub-
section shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of twenty
naira, and in addition to the penalty prescribed under subsection (1) and (2) on
stamping the instrument there shall be paid a further penalty equivalent to the
unpaid duty thereon, unless a reasonable excuse for the delay in stamping or
the omission to stamp, or the insufficiency of stamp, is afforded to the satis-
faction of the commissioner, or of the court, arbitrator or referee before whom
it is produced;
(c) the instruments and persons to which the provisions of this subsection are to
apply are as follows-

Title of instrument as described Person liable to penalty
in the Schedule
Bond, covenant, or instrument of The obligee, covenantee or other
any kind whatsoever. person taking the security.
Conveyance on sale ....................... The vendee or transferee.
Conveyances or transfers operating The grantor or transferor.
as voluntary dispositions inter vivos.
Lease ......................................... The lessee .
Mortgage bond, debenture, cove- The mortgagee or obligee, In the
nant, and warrant of attorney to con- case of a transfer or reconveyance,
fess and enter up judgmenl. the transferee, assignee or disponee
or person redeeming the secu-
rity.
Settlement ...................................... The settler.
(4) Except where other express provision is made by this Act in relation to any par-
ticular instrument, any unstamped or insufficiently stamped instrument which has been
first executed at any place outside Nigeria, may be stamped, at any time within thirty
days after it has been first received in Nigeria, on payment of the unpaid duty only.
(5) Where an instrument is void unless it has been approved or sanctioned by the
Minister or some public officer, the periods mentioned in this section shall be deemed to
run from the date of such approval or sanction.
(6) Where an instrument has been submitted to a commissioner for his opinion before
the period within which it may be stamped has expired, the instrument may be stamped in
accordance with the assessment of the commissioner within 21 days after notice of the
assessment.
(7) The date of the approval or sanction referred to in subsection (4) and of the notice
of assessment in subsection (6) of this section shall be the date upon which such ap-
proval, sanction or notice of assessment has been sent by registered or ordinary letter post
to the address of the person who requested the approval or sanction referred to in subsec-
tion (5) of this section or the assessment in subsection (6) of this section, as the case may
be, or after notice of such approval, sanction or assessment has been handed personally to
such person or his representative.
(8) Where the Minister or Governor, as the case may be, is of the opinion that the per-
iod of forty days specified in subsection (1) of this section or of thirty days specified in
subsections (3) and (4) of this section is-
(a) being used in any manner for the purpose of evading the payment of stamp
duties; or
(b) too long or too short in view of the fact that a commissioner is either easy or
difficult of access for the purposes of assessing the duty payable upon any in-
strument or of having stamps impressed upon an instrument liable to duty,

the Minister or Governor, as the case may be, may by order declare that for the period of
forty days specified in subsection (1) and for the periods of thirty days specified in sub-
sections (3) and (4) of this section or either of them, there shall be substituted such lesser
or longer period of time as may be specified in the said order and thereafter such lesser
period shall be substituted for the period of forty days specified in subsection (1) of this
section and such lesser or longer period for the periods of thirty days specified in subsec-
tions (3) and (4) of this section or either of them, as the case may be, in the application of
this section to instruments first executed or received in those towns, areas or places to
which the order relates.
(9) An order under this subsection may specify different periods of time in respect of
different places and may be restricted or increased in the case of a period of time referred
to in subsection (3) of this section to instruments first executed in Nigeria.
Entries upon rolls, books and documents
24. Certai n rolls and books to be open to ins pection
(1) Every person having in his custody any rolls, books, records, papers, documents,
or proceedings, the inspection whereof may tend to secure any duty, or to prove or lead to
the discovery of any fraud or omission in relation to any duty, shall at all reasonable
times permit any person thereto authorised by the commissioner to inspect the rolls,
books, records, papers, documents, and proceedings, and to take such notes and extracts
as he deems necessary, without fee or reward, and in case of refusal, shall for every such
refusal be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to a fine of twenty naira.
(2) Where such rolls, books, records, papers, documents or proceedings are in the
custody of any bank, such inspection shall first be made by a commissioner unaccompa-
nied by any other person unless the commissioner decides that it is necessary for him to
have assistance in determining whether any fraud or omission in relation to any duty has
taken place.
25. Penal ty for enrolling i nstrument not stamped
If any person whose office it is to enroll, register or enter in or upon any rolls, books
or records any instrument chargeable with duty, enrolls, registers or enters any such in-
strument not being duly stamped, he shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction
to a tine of twenty naira.
Destruction of unclaimed instruments
26. Destructi on of uncl ai med i nstruments
Where any instrument has been left with or at the office of any commissioner for any
purpose connected with any of the provisions of this Act and the instrument is not
claimed by the person to whom the same belongs within six months of its being so left, a
notice may be inserted in an issue of the Federal Gazette stating that the instrument will
be destroyed if not claimed by such person within two months of the publication of the
notice and if the instrument is not so claimed it may be destroyed.

PAR T II
Regulations applicable to particular instruments
Admission
27. Mode of denoting duty
(1) The duty payable upon an admission shall be denoted on the instrument of admis-
sion delivered to the person admitted, if there is any such instrument, or if not, on the
register, entry or memorandum of the admission in the rolls, books or records of the court
in which the person is admitted and in cases in which no instrument of admission is de-
livered, and no register, entry, or memorandum is made, on the receipt or warrant for
admission.
[28 of 1941.]
(2) If any person whose office it is to prepare or deliver out any instrument of admis-
sion chargeable with duty, or to register, enter, or make any memorandum of any admis-
sion in respect of which no instrument of admission is delivered to the person admitted,
neglects or refuses, within one month after the admission, to prepare a duly stamped in-
strument of admission, or to make a duly stamped register, entry, or memorandum of the
admission as the case may require, he shall be guilty of an offence and liable on convic-
tion to a fine of twenty naira.
Agreements
28. Adhesi ve stamps may be used for agreements
The duty of ten kobo on an agreement may be denoted by an adhesive stamp which
must be cancelled by the person by whom the agreement is first signed before he delivers
it out of his hands.
29. Certai n mortgages of stock to be chargeable as agreements
(1) Every instrument under hand only (not being a promissory note or bill of ex-
change) given upon the occasion of the deposit of any share warrant or stock certificate to
bearer, or foreign share certificate or any security for money transferable by delivery, by
way of security for any loan, shall be deemed to be an agreement, and shall be charged
with duty accordingly.
(2) Every instrument under hand only (not being a promissory note or bill of ex-
change) making redeemable or qualifying a duly stamped transfer, intended as a security,
of any registered stock or marketable security shall be deemed to be an agreement and
shall be charged with duty accordingly.
(3) A release or discharge of any such instrument shall not be chargeable with any ad
valorem duty.
30. Hire purchase agreement to be stamped
Any agreement for or relating to the supply of goods on hire, whereby the goods in
consideration of periodical payments shall or may become the property of the person to
whom they are supplied, shall be charged with duty as an agreement and if under seal as a

deed, as the case requires, and the exemption numbered (3) under the heading "Agree-
ment or any Memorandum of an Agreement" in the Schedule to this Act shall not apply
in the case of any such instrument.
Appraisements
31. Definition of "appraiser"
For the purposes of this Act, the expression "appraiser" means a person who values
or appraises any estate or property, real or personal, or any interest, whether in possession
or not, in any estate or property, or any goods, merchandise, or effects for or in expecta-
tion of any hire, gain, fee or reward.
32. Appraisements to be written out
(1) Every appraiser, by whom an appraisement or valuation chargeable with duty is
made, shall, within fourteen days after the making thereof, write out the same in words
and figures showing the full amount thereof, and shall duly stamp the same and if he ne-
glects or omits so to do, or in any other manner first discloses the amount of the ap-
praisement or valuation, he shall be guilty of an offence and liable to a fine of one hun-
dred naira.
[28 o f 1941.)
(2) Every person who receives from any appraiser, or pays for the making of any
such appraisement or valuation, not so written out and stamped as aforesaid, shall incur a
fine of forty naira.
Instruments of apprenticeship
33. Meaning of instrument of apprenticeship
Every writing relating to the service or tuition of any apprentice, clerk, or servant
placed with any master to learn any profession, trade or employment, is to be deemed an
instrument of apprenticeship.
Bank notes, bills of exchange and promissory notes
34. Meaning of "banker" and "bank note"
For the purposes of this Act, the expression "banker" means any person carrying on
the business of banking in Nigeria and the expression "bank note" includes-
(a) any bill of exchange or promissory note issued by any banker for the payment
of money not exceeding two hundred naira to the bearer on demand; and
(b) any bill of exchange or promissory note so issued which entitles or is intended
to entitle the bearer or holder thereof, without endorsement or without any
further or other endorsement than may be thereon at the time of the issuing
thereof, to the payment of money not exceeding two hundred naira on demand,
whether the same be so expressed or not and in whatever form, and by whom-
soever the bill or note is drawn or made.

35. B ankers not to issue bank notes i n Nig eri a other than those of Central B ank of
Nigeri a
(1) It shall not be lawful for any banker to issue in Nigeria any bank note.
[L.N. 112o fI96 4.]
(2) Any person who commits an offence against this section shall be guilty of an of-
fence and liable on conviction to a fine of two hundred naira.
(3) The provisions of this section shall not apply to the issue or uttering by any
banker of bills or notes issued by the Central Bank of Nigeria.
Bills of exchange and promissory notes
36. Meani ng of "bill of exchang e"
For the purposes of this Act, the expression "bill of exchange" includes draft, order,
cheque and letter of credit, and any document or writing (except a bank note) entitling or
purporting to entitle any person, whether named therein or not, to payment by any other
person of or to draw upon any other person for, any sum of money; and the expression
"bill o f e xchange payab le on demand" includes-
(a) an order for the payment of any sum or money by a bill of exchange or a
promissory note, or for the delivery of any bill of exchange or promissory note
in satisfaction of any sum of money or for payment of any sum of money out
of any particular fund which mayor may not be available, or upon any condi-
tion or contingency which mayor may not be performed or happen; and
(b) an order for the payment of any sum of money weekly, monthly or at any other
stated periods, and also an order for the payment by any person at any time
after the date thereof of any sum of money, and sent or delivered by the person
making the same to the person by whom the payment is to be made and not to
the person to whom the payment is to be made, or to any person on his behalf.
37. Meani ng of "promissory note"
(1) For the purposes of this Act, the expression "promissory note" includes any
document or writing (except a bank note) containing a promise to pay any sum of money.
(2) A note promising the payment of any sum of money out of any particular fund
which mayor may not be available, or upon any condition or contingency which mayor
may not be performed or happen, shall be deemed a promissory note for that sum of
money.
38. S tatement of duty payabl e on promissory note contai ning g uarantee
Where an instrument under hand only contains both a promissory note by a principal
debtor and a guarantee by a surety but there is no memorandum of charge, pledge or de-
posit or other form of security, such instrument shall be stamped both as a promissory
note and as a guarantee, and all other matters contained in a promissory note which
would be liable to duty if contained in a separate instrument, shall be charged separately.

39. Provisi ons for use of adhesi ve stamps on bills and notes
(1) The fixed duty of two kobo on a bill of exchange, payable on demand or at sight
or on presentation or within three days after date or sight, may be denoted by an adhesive
stamp, which, where the bill is drawn in Nigeria, shall be cancelled by the person by
whom the bill is signed before he delivers it out of his hands, custody, or power.
(2) The ad valorem duties upon bills of exchange and promissory notes drawn or
made out of Nigeria are to be denoted by adhesi ve stamps.
40. Provisi ons as to stamping foreign bills and notes
(1) Every person into whose hands any bill of exchange or promissory note, drawn or
made out of Nigeria, comes in Nigeria before it is stamped shall, before he presents for
payment, or endorses, transfers or in any manner negotiates, or pays the bill or note, affix
thereto a proper adhesive stamp or proper adhesive stamps of sufficient amount, and can-
cel every stamp so affixed thereto:
Provided-
(a) that if at the time when any such bill or note comes into the hands of any bona
fide holder there is affixed thereto an adhesive stamp effectually cancelled, the
stamp shall, so far as it relates to the holder, be deemed to be duly cancelled,
although it may not appear to have been fixed or cancelled by the proper per-
son;
(b) that if at the time when any such bill or note comes into the hands of any bona
fide holder there is affixed thereto an adhesive stamp not duly cancelled, it
shall be competent for the holder to cancel the stamp as if he were the person
by whom it was affixed, and upon his so doing the bill or note shall be deemed
duly stamped and as valid and available as if the stamp had been cancelled by
the person by whom it was affixed.
(2) Neither of the provisions specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (1) of
this section shall relieve any person from any fine or penalty incurred by him for not can-
celling an adhesive stamp.
41. Provisi ons as to bills and notes purporti ng to be drawn abroad
A bill of exchange or promissory note which purports to be drawn or made out of Ni-
geria shall, for the purposes of determining the mode in which the duty thereon is to be
denoted, be deemed to have been so drawn or made, although it may in fact have been
drawn or made in Nigeria.
42. Penal ty for issuing any unstamped bill or note
(1) Every person who issues, endorses, transfers, negotiates, presents for payment, or
pays any bill of exchange or promissory note liable to duty and not being duly stamped,
shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of twenty naira, and the
person who takes or receives from any other person any such bill or note either in pay-
ment or as a security, or by purchase or otherwise, shall not be entitled to recover
thereon, or to make the same available for any purpose whatever:

Provided that if any bill of exchange payable on demand or at sight or on presenta-
tion, or within three days after date or sight is presented for payment unstamped, the per-
son to whom it is presented may affix thereto an adhesive stamp of two kobo, and cancel
the same, as if he had been the drawer of the bill, and may thereupon pay the sum in the
bill mentioned, and charge the duty in account against the person by whom the bill was
drawn, or deduct the duty from the said sum, and the bill shall, so far as respects the duty,
be deemed valid and available.
(2) The proviso to subsection (1) of this section shall not relieve any person from any
fine or penalty incurred by him in relation to such bill.
43. One bill only of a set need be stamped
When a bill of exchange is drawn in a set according to the custom of merchants, and
one of the set is duly stamped, the other or others of the set shall, unless issued or in some
manner negotiated apart from the stamped bill, be exempt from duty; and upon proof of
the loss or destruction of a duly stamped bill forming one of the set, any other bill of the
set which has not been issued or in any manner negotiated apart from the lost or de-
stroyed bill may, although unstamped, be admitted in evidence to prove the contents of
the lost or destroyed bill.
Bills of lading
44. Bills of l adi ng
(1) A bill of lading is not to be stamped after the execution thereof.
(2) Every person who makes or executes any bill of lading not duly stamped shall be
guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of one hundred naira.
Bills of sale
45. Bills of sale
A bill of sale shall not be registered under any law for the time being in force relating
to the registration of bills of sale unless the original, duly stamped, is produced to the
proper officer. .
46. Provisi ons as to duty on charter-party
(1) For the purposes of this Act, the expression "charter-p arty" includes any
agreement or contract for the charter of any ship or vessel or any memorandum, letter, or
other writing between the captain, master or owner of any ship or vessel, and any other
person for or relating to the freight or conveyance of any money, goods, or effects on
board of a ship or vessel.
[28 of 1941.]
(2) The duty upon a charter-party may be denoted by an adhesive stamp, which shall
be cancelled by the person by whom the instrument is last executed, or by whose execu-
tion it is completed as a binding contract.

47. Charter-parties executed abroad
Where a charter-party is first executed out of Nigeria without being duly stamped, any
party thereto may, within ten days after it has been first received in Nigeria, and before it
has been executed by any person in Nigeria, affix thereto an adhesive stamp denoting the
duty chargeable thereon, and at the same time cancel such adhesive stamp, and the in-
strument when so stamped shall be deemed duly stamped.
[28 of 1941.]
48. Terms upon which charter-parties may be stamped after execution
A charter-party may be stamped with an impressed stamp after execution upon the
following terms-
[28 of 1941.J
(a) within seven days after the first execution thereof, on payment of the duty and
a penalty of 45 kobo;
(b) after seven days but within one month after the first execution thereof, on
payment of the duty and a penalty of twenty naira,
and shall not in any other case be stamped with an impressed stamp.
Contract notes
49. Provisions as to contract notes
(l) For the purpose of this Act, the expression "contract note" means the note sent
by a broker or agent to his principal, or by any person who, by way of business, deals, or
holds himself out as dealing, as a principal in any stock or marketable securities, advising
the principal, or the vendor or purchaser, as the case may be, of the sale or purchase of
any stock or marketable security, but does not include a note sent by a broker or agent to
his principal where the principal is himself acting as broker or agent for a principal.
(2) Where a contract note is a continuation or carrying over note made for the pur-
pose of continuing or carrying over any transaction for the sale or purchase of stock or
marketable security, the contract note, although it is made in respect of both a sale and
purchase, shall be charged with duty under this section as if it related to one of those
transactions only, and, if different rates of duty are chargeable in respect of those trans-
actions, to that one of those transactions which would render the contract note chargeable
at the highest rate.
(3) Where a contract note advises the sale or purchase of more than one description
of stock or marketable security, the note shall be deemed to be as many contract notes as
there are descriptions of stocks or securities sold or purchased.
50. Obligation to execute contract note
(1) Any person who effects any sale or purchase of any stock or marketable security
as a broker or agent, and any person who, by way of business, deals, or holds himself out
as dealing, as a principal in any stock or marketable security, and buys or sells any such
stuck or marketable security, shall forthwith make and execute a contract note and trans-
mit the note to his principal, or to the vendor or purchaser of the stock or marketable

security, as the case may be, and in default of so doing shall be guilty of an offence and
liable on conviction to a fine of forty naira.
(2) If any person makes or executes any contract note chargeable with duty and not
being duly stamped, he shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of
forty naira.
(3) No broker, agent, or other person shall have any legal claim to any charge for
brokerage, commission or agency, with reference to the sale or purchase of any stock or
marketable security if he fails to comply with the provisions of this section.
(4) All stamp duties on a contract note may be denoted by an adhesive stamp which
is to be cancelled by the person by whom the note is executed.
(5) Any duty on a contract note may be added to the charge for brokerage or agency,
and shall be recoverable as part of such charge.
51. Extension of provisions as to contract notes to sale or purchase of opti ons
(1) The provisions of this Act as to contract notes shall apply to any contract under
which an option is given or taken to purchase or sell any stock or marketable security at a
future time at a certain price, as it applies to the sale or purchase of any stock or market-
able security, but the duty on such a contract shall be one half only of that chargeable on
a contract note:
Provided that, if under the contract a double option is given or taken, the contract
shall be deemed to be a separate contract in respect of each option.
(2) Any contract note made or executed in pursuance and in consequence of the exer-
cise of an option given or taken under a contract duly stamped in accordance with the
provisions of this section, shall be charged with one half only of the duty which would
otherwise have been chargeable thereon under this Act:
Provided that it bears on its face a certificate by the broker, agent or other person
mentioned in section 50 of this Act to the effect that it is made or executed in the exercise
of an option for which a duly stamped contract has been rendered on the date mentioned
in the certificate.
Conveyances on sale
52. Meaning of "conveyance on sale"
(1) For the purposes of this Act, the expression "conveyance on sale" includes-
(a) every instrument, and every decree or order of any court whereby any prop-
erty, or any estate or interest in any property, upon the sale thereof is trans-
ferred to or vested in a purchaser, or any other person on his behalf or by his
direction;
(b) a decree or order for, or having the effect of an order for foreclosure.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section-
(a) the ad valorem duty upon any such decree or order shall not exceed the duty
on a sum equal to the value of the property to which the decree or order relates,

and where the decree or order states that value, that statement shall be conclu-
sive for the purposes of determining the amount of the duty; and
(b) where ad valorem duty is paid upon such decree or order, any conveyance
following upon such decree or order shall be exempt from the ad valorem
duty.
53. How ad valorem duty is to be calcul ated i n res pect of stock and securi ties
(1) Where the consideration, or any part of the consideration, for a conveyance on
sale consists of any stock or marketable security, the conveyance shall be charged with
ad valorem duty in respect of the value of the stock or security.
(2) Where the consideration, or any part of the consideration, for a conveyance on
sale consists of any security not being a marketable security, the conveyance shall be
charged with ad valorem duty in respect of the amount due on the day of the date thereof
for principal and interest upon the security.
54. How consi derati on consisting of periodical payments to be charged
(1) Where the consideration, or any part of the consideration, for the conveyance on
sale consists of money payable periodically for a definite period not exceeding twenty
years, so that the total amount to be paid can be previously ascertained, the conveyance
shall be charged in respect of that consideration with ad valorem duty on such total
amount.
(2) Where the consideration, or any part of the consideration, for a conveyance on
sale consists of money payable periodically for a definite period exceeding twenty years
or in perpetuity or for an indefinite period not terminable with life, the conveyance shall
be charged in respect of that consideration with ad valorem duty on the total amount
which shall or may, according to the terms of sale, be payable during the period of twenty
years next after the day of the date of the instrument.
(3) Where the consideration, or any part of the consideration, for the conveyance on
sale consists of money payable periodically during any life or lives, the conveyance shall
be charged in respect of that consideration with ad valorem duty on the amount which
shall or may, according to the terms of the sale, be payable during the period of twelve
years next after the day of the date of the instrument.
(4) No conveyance on sale chargeable with ad valorem duty in respect of any peri-
odical payments, and containing also provision for securing the payments, shall be
charged with any duty in respect of such provision, and no separate instrument made in
that case for securing the payments is to be charged with any higher duty than one naira.
55. Conveyance on s ale wi th further convenant
A conveyance on sale made for any consideration in respect whereof it is chargeable
with ad valorem duty, and in further consideration of a covenant by the purchaser to
make, or of his having previously made, any substantial improvement of or addition to
the property conveyed to him, or of any covenant relating to the subject matter of the
conveyance, shall not be chargeable, and shall be deemed not to have been chargeable,
with any duty in respect of such further consideration.

56. How conveyance in consi derati on of a debt is to be charged
Where any property is conveyed to any person in consideration, wholly or in part, of
any debt due to him, or subject either certainly or contingently to the payment or transfer
of any money or stock, whether being or constituting a charge or encumbrance upon the
property or not, the debt, money or stock shall be deemed the whole or part, as the case
may be, of the consideration in respect whereof the conveyance is chargeable with ad
valorem duty.
57. Directi on as to duty i n certai n cases
(1) Where properly contracted to be sold for one consideration for the whole is con-
veyed to the purchaser in separate parts or parcels by different instruments, the consid-
eration shall be apportioned in such manner as the parties think lit, so that a distinct con-
sideration for each separate part or parcel is set forth in the conveyance relating thereto,
and such conveyance shall be charged with ad valorem duty in respect of such distinct
consideration.
(2) Where property contracted to be purchased for one consideration for the whole by
two or more persons jointly, or by any person for himself and others, or wholly for oth-
ers, is conveyed in separate parts or parcels by separate instruments to the persons by or
for whom the same was purchased for distinct parts of the consideration, the conveyance
of each separate part or parcel shall be charged with ad vaLorem duty in respect of the
distinct part of the consideration therein speci fied.
(3) Where there are several instruments of conveyance for completing the pur-
chaser's title to property sold, the principal instrument of conveyance only shall be
charged with ad vaLorem duty, and the other instruments shall respectively be charged
with such other duty as they may be liable to, but the last mentioned duty shall not exceed
the ad valorem duty payable in respect of the principal instrument.
(4) Where a person having contracted for the purchase of any property, but not hav-
ing obtained a conveyance thereof, contracts to sell the same to any other person, and the
property is in consequence conveyed immediately to the sub-purchaser, the conveyance
shall be charged with ad vaLorem duty in respect of the consideration moving from the
sub-purchaser.
(5) Where a person having contracted for the purchase of any property but not having
obtained a conveyance, contracts to sell the whole, or any part or parts thereof, to any
other person or person, and the property is in consequence conveyed by the original seller
to different persons in parts or parcels, the conveyance of each part or parcel shall be
charged with ad valorem duty in respect only of the consideration moving from the sub-
purchaser thereof, without regard to the amount or value of the original consideration.
(6) Where a sub-purchaser takes an actual conveyance of the interest of the person
immediately selling to him, which is chargeable with ad valorem duty in respect of the
consideration moving from him, and is duly stamped accordingly, any conveyance to be
afterwards made to him of the same property by the original seller shall be chargeable
only with such other duty as it may be liable to, but the last mentioned duty shall not ex-
ceed the ad vaLorem duty.

58. Certai n contracts to be chargeable as conveyances on sale
(1) Any contract or agreement under seal, or under hand only, for the sale of any eq-
uitable estate or interest in any property whatsoever, or for the sale of any estate or inter-
est in any property except property locally situated out of Nigeria, or goods, wares, or
merchandise, or stock or marketable securities, or any ship or vessel or part interest,
share, or property of or in any ship or vessel, shall be charged with the same ad valorem
duty, to be paid by the purchaser, as if it were an actual conveyance on sale of the estate,
interest or property contracted or agreed to be sold.
(2) Where the purchaser has paid the said ad valorem duty and before having ob-
tained a conveyance or transfer of the property, enters into a contract or agreement for the
sale of the same, the contract or agreement shall be charged, if the consideration for that
sale is in excess of the consideration for the original sale, with the ad valorem duty pay-
able in respect of such excess consideration, and in any other case with the fixed duty of
two naira or ten kobo, as the case may require.
(3) Where the duty has been paid in conformity with the foregoing provisions, the
conveyance or transfer made to the purchaser or sub-purchaser, or any other person on
his behalf or by his direction, shall not be chargeable with any duty, and a commissioner
upon application, either shall denote the payment of the ad valorem duty upon the con-
veyance or transfer, or shall transfer the ad valorem duty thereto upon production of the
contract or agreement, or contracts or agreements, duly stamped.
(4) Where any such contract or agreement is stamped with the fixed duty of three
naira, as the case may require, the contract or agreement shall be regarded as duly
stamped for the mere purpose of proceeding to enforce specific performance or recover
damages for the breach thereof.
(5) Where any such contract or agreement is stamped with the said fixed duty, and a
conveyance or transfer made in conformity with the contract or agreement is presented to
a commissioner for stamping with the ad valorem duty chargeable thereon within a pe-
riod of six months after the first creation of the contract or agreement, or within any such
longer time as the commissioner may think reasonable in the circumstances of the case,
the conveyance or transfer shall be stamped accordingly, and the same, and the said con-
tract or agreement shall be deemed to be duly stamped:
Provided that nothing in this subsection shall alter or affect the provisions as to
stamping an instrument after the execution thereof.
(6) The ad valorem duty paid upon any such contract or agreement shall be returned
by the Accountant-General on a certificate by the commissioner in case the contract or
agreement be afterwards rescinded or annulled, or for any other reason be not substan-
tially performed or carried into effect, so as to operate as or be followed by a conveyance
or transfer.
(7) Any certificate required from the commissioner under this section shall be free of
charge.
59. Where interest in land transferred by sale and possession without a conveyance
Where any instrument which purports to convey any estate or interest in land, here-
ditament or heritage does not operate in law to transfer such estate or interest, then, if the

instrument constitutes an agreement or contract to sell such estate or interest, it shall be
deemed to be a contract or agreement within the meaning of section 58 of this Act
[28 of 1941.]
Provided that where the purchaser is entitled to such an estate or interest by virtue
of an instrument creating or transferring the same and such estate, interest or instrument
is registered under any Act, any contract or agreement for the sale of such estate or inter-
est shall not be chargeable with duty under section 58 of this Act.
60. Provision as to sale of an annuity or right not before in existence
Where upon the sale of an annuity or other right not before in existence such annuity
or other right is not created by actual grant or conveyance, but is only secured by bond,
warrant of attorney, covenant, contract, or otherwise, the bond or other instrument, or
some one of such instruments, if there be more than one, shall be charged with the same
duty as an actual grant or conveyance, and shall for the purposes of this Act be deemed
an instrument of conveyance on sale.
61. Princi pal instrument, how to be ascertained
The parties may determine for themselves which of several instruments shall be
deemed the principal instrument, and may pay the ad valorem duty thereon accordingly.
62. Duty payable in certai n cases under an Act on vesting of property
Where by virtue of an Act, either-
[L.N. 112 of 1964.]
(a) any property is vested by way of sale in any person; or
(b) any person is authorised to purchase property,
such person shall within three months of the passing of the Act, or the date of vesting,
whichever is later, or after the completion of the purchase, as the case may be, produce to
a commissioner a copy of the Act or some instrument relating to the vesting in the first
case, and an instrument of the conveyance of the property in the other case, duly stamped
with ad valorem duty payable upon a conveyance on sale of the property; and in default
of such production, the duty with interest thereon at the rate of ten per cent per annum
from the passing of the Act, date of vesting or completion of the purchase, as the case
may be, shall be a debt to the Government of the Federation from such person.
63. Duty on gifts inter vivos
(l) Any conveyance or transfer operating as a voluntary disposition inter vivos shall
be chargeable with the like duty as if it were a conveyance or transfer on sale, with the
substitution in each case of the value of the property conveyed or transferred for the
amount or value of the consideration for the sale:
[26 of 1946.]
Provided that this section shall not apply to a conveyance or transfer operating as a
voluntary disposition of property to a body of persons incorporated by a special Act, if
that body is by its Act precluded from dividing any profit among its members and the
property conveyed is to be held for the purposes of an open space or for the purposes of
its preservation for the benefit of Nigeria.

(2) A commissioner may be required to express his opinion under section 16 of this
Act on any conveyance or transfer operating as a voluntary disposition inter vivos, and no
such conveyance or transfer shall be deemed to be duly stamped unless a commissioner
has expressed his opinion thereon in accordance with that section.
(3) Where any instrument is chargeable with duty both as a conveyance or transfer
under this section and a settlement under the heading "SETTLEMENT" in the Schedule to
this Act, the instrument shall be charged with duty as a conveyance or transfer under this
section, and not as a settlement.
(4) Any conveyance or transfer (not being a disposition made in favour of a pur-
chaser or incumbrancer or other person in good faith and for valuable consideration)
shall, for the purposes of this section, be deemed to be a conveyance or transfer operating
as a voluntary disposition inter vivos, and (except where marriage is the consideration)
the consideration for any conveyance or transfer shall not for this purpose be deemed to
be valuable consideration where the commissioner is of opinion that by reason of the in-
adequacy of the sum paid as consideration or other circumstances the conveyance or
transfer confers a substantial benefit on the person to whom the property is conveyed or
transferred.
(5) A conveyance or transfer made for nominal consideration for the purpose of se-
curing the repayment of an advance or loan or made for effectuating the appointment of a
new trustee or the retirement of a trustee, whether the trust is expressed or implied, or
under which no beneficial interest passes in the property conveyed or transferred, or
made to a beneficiary by a trustee or other person in a fiduciary capacity under any trust,
whether expressed or implied, or a disentailing assurance not limiting any new estate
other than an estate in fee simple in the person disentailing the property, shall not be
charged with duty under this section, and this subsection shall have effect notwithstand-
ing that the circumstances exempting the conveyance or transfer from charge under this
section are not set forth in the conveyance or transfer.
64. Licence wi th a grant to enter upon l and
A licence to a person to enter upon land coupled with a grant, whether such grant be
the removal of material from land or other transfer of property, shall (where a premium is
paid by the licensee) be subject to ad valorem duty as a conveyance on sale for the pre-
miu m so paid or, where rent is paid by the licensee, be subject to duty as a lease at the
rent so payable.
Conveyances on any occasion except sale or mortgage
65. What is to be deemed a conveyance on any occasion not bei ng a sale or mort-
gage
Every instrument, and every decree or order of any court, whereby any property on
any occasion, except a sale, or mortgage, is transferred to or vested in any person, shall
be charged with duty as a conveyance or transfer of property:
Provided that a conveyance or transfer made for effectuating the appointment of a
new trustee or for effectuating the retirement of a trustee although no new trustee is ap-
pointed, shall not be charged with any higher duty than one naira.

Duplicates and counterparts
66. Provision as to duplicates and counterparts
The duplicate or counterpart of an instrument chargeable with duty (except the coun-
terpart of an instrument chargeable as a lease, such counterpart not being executed by or
on behalf of any lessor or grantor) shall not be deemed duly stamped, unless it is stamped
as an original instrument, or unless it is made to appear to a commissioner (who shall
upon payment of a fee of 25 kobo in adhesive stamps, certify on such duplicate or coun-
terpart accordingly) that the full and proper duty has been paid upon the original instru-
ment of which it is the duplicate or counterpart.
Exchange and partition or division
67. Provisions as to exchange
Where upon the exchange of any real property for any other real property, or upon the
partition or division of any real property, any consideration exceeding in amount or value
two hundred naira is paid or given, or agreed to be paid or given, for equality, the princi-
pal or only instrument whereby the exchange or partition is effected shall be charged with
the same ad valorem duty as a conveyance on sale for the consideration, and with that
duty only; and where in any such case there are several instruments for completing the
title of either party, the principal instrument shall be ascertained, and the other instru-
ments shall be charged with duty in the manner hereinbefore provided in the case of sev-
eral instruments of conveyance.
Leases
68. Agreements to be charged as lease
(1) An agreement for a lease, or with respect to the letting of any lands or tenements,
shall be charged with the same duty as if it were an actual lease made for the term and
consideration mentioned in the agreement.
(2) A lease made subsequently to, and in conformity with, such an agreement duly
stamped, is to be charged with the duty of ten kobo only.
69. Leases, how to be charged in res pect of produce
(1) Where the consideration, or any part of the consideration, for which a lease is
granted or agreed to be granted, consists of any produce or other goods, the value of the
produce or goods shall be deemed a consideration in respect of which the lease or agree-
ment is chargeable with ad valorem duty as for a conveyance on sale.
(2) Where it is stipulated that the value of the produce or goods is to amount at least
to, or is not to exceed, a given sum, or where the lessee is specially charged with, or has
the option of paying after any permanent rate of conversion, the value of the produce or
goods shall, for the purpose of assessing the ad valorem duty, be estimated at the given
sum or according to the permanent rate.
(3) A lease or agreement for a lease made either wholly or partially for any such con-
sideration, if it contains a statement of the value thereof, and is stamped in accordance
with the statement, shall, so far as regards the subject matter of the statement, be deemed

duly stamped, unless or until it is otherwise shown that the statement is incorrect, and that
the lease or agreement is in fact not duly stamped.
70. Directi ons as to duty i n certai n cases
(1) A lease or agreement for a lease or with respect to any letting, is not to be charged
with any duty in respect of any penal rent, or increased rent in the nature of a penal rent,
thereby reserved or agreed to be reserved or made payable, or by reason of being made in
consideration of the surrender or abandonment of any existing lease, or agreement, of or
relating to the same subject matter.
(2) A lease made for any consideration in respect whereof it is chargeable with ad
valorem duty, and in further consideration either of a covenant by the lessee to make, or
of his having previously made, any substantial improvement of or addition to the property
demised to him, or of any covenant relating to the matter of the lease, shall not be
charged with any duty in respect of such further consideration:
Provided that if the further consideration in the lease consists of a covenant which
if it were contained in a separate deed would be charged with ad valorem duty, the lease
shall in any such case be charged with duty in respect of any such further consideration
under section 8 of this Act.
(3) An instrument whereby the rent reserved by any other instrument chargeable with
duty and duly stamped as a lease is increased, shall not be charged with duty otherwise
than as a lease in consideration of the additional rent thereby made payable.
71. Duty on certai n leases may be denoted by adhesi ve stamp
The duty upon an instrument chargeable with duty as lease for any definite term less
than a year and the duty upon the duplicate or counterpart of any such instrument, may be
denoted by an adhesive stamp which shall be cancelled by the person by whom the in-
strument is first executed.
[28 of 1941.]
Letter of allotment or renunciation, scrip certificates and scrip
72. Provisi ons as to letters of all otment
Every person who executes, grants, issues, or delivers out any document chargeable
with duty as a letter of allotment, letter or renunciation, or scrip certificate, or as scrip,
before the same is duly stamped, shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to
a fine of forty naira.
73. Duty on both letter of all otment and letter of renunci ati on
A separate duty shall be charged in respect of letters of allotment and letters of renun-
ciation, although they may be contained in the same document.
Letters or powers of attorney and voting papers
74. Provisi ons as to proxies and voting papers
(1) Every letter or power of attorney for the purpose of appointing a proxy to vote at
a meeting, and every voting paper, hereby respectively charged with the duty of two

kobo, shall specify the day upon which the meeting at which it is intended to be used is to
be held, and shall be available only at the meeting so specified, and any adjournment
thereof.
(2) Every person who makes or executes, or votes, or attempts to vote, under or by
means of any such letter or power of attorney or voting paper, not being duly stamped,
shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of one hundred naira, and
every vote given or tendered under the authority or by means of the letter or power of
attorney or voting paper, shall be void.
75. Power by more than one pers on or to more than one person to count as one
po wer
No instrument chargeable with duty under the heading "LETTER OR POWER OF
ArroRNEY, and COMMISSION, FACTORY, MANDATE or other instrument in the nature
thereof' in the Schedule to this Act shall be charged with duty more than once by reason
only that more persons than one are named in the instrument as donors or donees
(whether jointly, severally or otherwise) of the powers thereby conferred or that those
powers relate to more than one matter.
Marketable securities
76. Meani ng of "marketable securi ties"
Marketab le securit ies, whether or not transferrable by delivery for the purposes of
the charge of duty thereon, include-
(a) a marketable security made or issued by or on behalf of any company or body
of persons corporate or unincorporate formed or established in Nigeria;
(b) a marketable security by or on behalf of any foreign State or Government, or
foreign corporation (hereinafter called a "foreign security") formed or estab-
lished outside Nigeria-
(i) which is made or issued in Nigeria;
(ii) which, though originally issued out of Nigeria is offered for subscrip-
tion, and is given or delivered to a subscriber in Nigeria;
(iii) which is assigned, transferred or in any manner negotiated in Nigeria;
(c) a marketable security by or on behalf of any Commonwealth Government
which, if the borrower were a foreign Government, would be a foreign security
(hereinafter called a "Commonwealth Government Security").
77. Meani ng of marketable security transferable on deli very and instrument to
bearer
An instrument used for the purpose of assigning, transferring or in any manner nego-
tiating the right to any marketable security, share or stock, shall, if the delivery thereof is
by usage treated as sufficient for the purpose of a sale on the market, whether that deliv-
ery constitutes a legal assignment, transferable on delivery or an instrument to bearer, as
the case may be, and the delivery thereof an assignment, transfer or negotiation.

78. Marketable security transferable on delivery to be stamped on execution
(1) A marketable security transferable on delivery (not being a foreign security or a
Commonwealth Government Security made or issued out of Nigeria) shall be stamped on
or before the issue or first execution thereof, and a foreign security made or issued out of
Nigeria shall be stamped before being dealt with in the manner specified in sec-
tion 75 (b) (ii) and (iii) of this Act.
(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of forty naira.
79. Duty reduced in case of short-term marketable securities
(1) The stamp duty charged on marketable securities transferable by delivery shall,
when the amount secured by the security is to be paid off within a term not exceeding
three years after the date on which the duty is payable, and the date by which the amount
is to be paid off is conspicuously stated on the face of the security, be reduced to five
kobo for every twenty naira or fractional part of twenty naira of the money secured, if
that money is to be paid off within a term not exceeding one year from the date on which
the duty is payable, and ten kobo for every twenty naira or fractional part of twenty naira
of the money secured, if that money is to be paid off within a term exceeding one year
but not exceeding three years from the date on which the duty is payable.
[28 of 1941.]
(2) If the marketable security upon which the stamp duty has been charged in accor-
dance with this section is assigned, transferred or in any manner negotiated in Nigeria
after the date stated on the face of the security as the date by which the amount secured is
to be paid off, stamp duty thereon shall be charged at the full rate of duty, an allowance
being made for the duty already paid, and if any person in Nigeria after the said date as-
signs, transfers or in any manner negotiates or is concerned as booker or agent in assign-
ing, transferring or in any manner negotiating any such security, and the security is not
stamped in accordance with this provision, that person shall be guilty of an offence and
liable on conviction to a fine of forty naira.
(3) Paragraph (3) under the heading "MARKETABLE SECURITY" in the Schedule to
this Act, shall not apply in the case of marketable securities given in substitution for mar-
ketable securities which have been stamped only with the reduced rate under this section.
Mortgages
80. Meaning of "mortgage" and "equitable mortgage"
(1) For the purposes of this Act, the expression "mortgage" means a security by way
of mortgage for the payment of any definite and certain sum of money advanced or lent at
the time, or previously due and owing, or forborne to be paid, being payable, or for the
repayment of money to be thereafter lent, advanced, or paid, or which may become due
upon an account current, together with any sum already advanced or due, or without, as
the case may be; and includes-
(a) conditional surrender by way of mortgage, further charge or disposition;
(b) any conveyance of any lands, estate or property whatsoever in trust to be sold
or otherwise converted into money, intended only as a security and redeemable

before the sale or other disposal thereof, either by express stipulation or other-
wise, except where the conveyance is made for the benefit of creditors gener-
ally, or for the benefit of creditors specified who accept the provision made for
payment of their debts in full satisfaction thereof, or who exceed five in num-
ber;
(c) an defeasance, letter of reversion, declaration or other deed or writing for de-
feating or making redeemable or explaining or qualifying any conveyance,
transfer or disposition of any lands, estate or property whatsoever, apparently
absolute, but intended only as a security;
(d) any agreement (other than an agreement chargeable with duty as an equitable
mortgage), contract, or bond accompanied with a deposit of title deeds for
making a mortgage, or any other security or conveyance as aforesaid of any
land, estate, or property comprised in title deeds, or for pledging or charging
the same as a security; and
(e) any deed operating as a mortgage of any stock or marketable security.
(2) For the purposes of this Act, the expression "equitable mortgage" means an
agreement or memorandum under hand only-
(a) relating to the deposit of any title deed or instrument constituting or being evi-
dence of the title to any property whatever (other than stock or marketable se-
curity); or
(b) creating a charge on lands, tenements or hereditaments whether or not such
charge is expressed to be created by "pledge" or otherwise.
(3) Where a mortgage gives a power of sale to the party taking the security or power
to enter into receipt of rents and profits or declaring that he is to have the power con-
ferred by law upon mortgagees, such mortgage shall be chargeable with duty as a legal
mortgage notwithstanding that it would have been an equitable mortgage had it not con-
tained the power of sale or other provisions specified in this subsection.
81. Direction as to duty in certain cases
(1) A security for the transfer or re-transfer of any stock shall be charged with the
same duty as a similar security for a sum of money equal in amount to the value of the
stock; and a transfer, assignment or disposition of any such security, and a reconveyance,
release, discharge, surrender, re-surrender, warrant to vacate, or renunciation of any such
security, shall be charged with the same duty as an instrument of the same description
relating to a sum of money equal in amount to the value of the stock.
(2) A security for the payment of any rent charge, annuity, or periodical payments, by
way of repayment, or in satisfaction or discharge of any loan, advance, or payment in-
tended to be so repaid, satisfied, or discharged, shall be charged with the same duty as a
similar security for the payment of the sum of money so lent, advanced or paid.
(3) A transfer of a duly stamped security, and a security by way of further charge for
money or stock, added to money or stock previously secured by a duly stamped instru-
ment, shall not be charged with any duty by reason of its containing any further or addi-
tional security for the money or stock transferred or previously secured, or the interest or
dividends thereof, or any new covenant, proviso, power, stipulation, or agreement in

relation thereto, or any further assurance of the property comprised in the transferred or
previous security.
(4) An instrument chargeable with ad valorem duty as a mortgage shall not be
charged with any further duty by reason of the equity of redemption in the mortgaged
property being thereby conveyed or limited in any other manner than to a purchaser, or in
trust for, or according to the direction of, a purchaser.
82. Security for future advances, how to be charged
(1) A security for the payment or repayment of money to be lent, advanced, or paid,
or which may become due upon an account current, either with or without money previ-
ously due, shall be charged, where the total amount secured or to be ultimately recover-
able is in any way limited, with the same duty as a security for the amount so limited.
(2) Where such total amount is unlimited, the security shall be available for such an
amount only as the ad valorem duty impressed thereon extends to cover, but where any
advance or loan is made in excess of the amount covered by that duty, the security shall,
for the purposes of stamp duty, be deemed to be a new and separate instrument, bearing
date on the day on which the advance or loan is made:
Provided that no money to be advanced for the insurance of any property com-
prised in the security against damage by fire, or for keeping up any policy of life insur-
ance comprised in the security, or for effecting in lieu thereof any new policy, or for the
renewal of any grant or lease of any property comprised in the security upon the dropping
of any life wherein the property is held, shall be reckoned as forming part of the amount
in respect whereof the security is chargeable with ad valorem duty.
Notarial acts
83. Duty on notarial acts may be denoted by adhesive stamps
The duty upon a notarial act and upon the protest by a notary public of a bill of ex-
change or promissory note may be denoted by an adhesive stamp which shall be can-
celled by the notary.
Policies of insurance
84. Interpretation
For the purposes of this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-
"policy of insurance" includes every writing other than cover notes, slips or other in-
struments usually made in anticipation of the issue of formal policy of marine insurance,
and instruments embodying alterations of the terms or conditions of any formal policy of
marine insurance whereby any contract of insurance is made or agreed to be made, or is
evidenced, and the expression "insurance" includes assurance;
"policy of life insurance" means a policy of insurance upon any life or lives or upon
any event or contingency relating to or depending upon any life or lives except a policy
of insurance against accident;

" policy of i nsurance ag ains t acci dent" means a policy of insurance for any payment
agreed to be made upon the death of any person only from accident or violence or other-
wise than from a natural cause, or as compensation for personal injury, and includes any
notice or advertisement in a newspaper or other publication which purports to insure the
payment of money upon the death of or injury to the holder or bearer of the newspaper or
publication containing the notice only from accident or violence, or otherwise than from a
natural cause; and also includes policies of insurance or indemnity against liability in-
curred by employers in consequence of claims made upon them by workmen who have
sustained personal injury where the annual premium on such policies does not exceed
four naira;
"policy of i ns urance for any pay ment ag reed to be ma de duri ng the sickness of
any person or his i ncapaci ty from personal injury" includes any notice or advertise-
ment in a newspaper or other publication which purports to insure such payment;
"policy of i ns urance for any pay ment ag reed to be ma de by way of i ndemni ty
ag ai nst l oss or damag e of or to any property" includes any notice or advertisement in a
newspaper or other publication which purports to insure such payment;
"policy of mari ne i nsurance" means any formal contract whereby an insurer under-
takes to indemnify an assured against losses incident to marine adventure, and includes
any contract relating to insurance of a ship or the machinery or fittings belonging to the
ship whilst under construction or repair or on trial.
85. S tamp on policy of ins urance ag ai nst acci dent and sickness
A policy of insurance against accident is not to be charged with any further duty than
six kobo by reason of the same extending to any payment to be made during sickness or
incapacity from personal injury.
[28 of 1941.]
86. Duty on poli cy of mari ne i nsurance
A policy of marine insurance shall be charged with the duty prescribed in the Sched-
ule to this Act.
87. Penalty for not maki ng out policy of i nsurance or maki ng any policy not
stamped
Any person who-
(a) receives or takes credit for, any premium or consideration for any insurance
and does not within one month after receiving, or taking credit for, the pre-
miu m or consideration, make out and execute a duly stamped policy of insur-
ance;or
(b) makes, executes or delivers out, or pays or allows in account, or agrees to pay
or allow in account, any money upon or in respect of any policy of insurance
which is not duly stamped,
shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of forty naira.

88. Assignment of policy of life assurance to be stamped before payment of money
assured
(1) No assignment of a policy of life assurance shall confer on the assignee therein
named, his executors, administrators, or assigns, any right to sue for the money assured or
secured thereby, or to give a valid discharge for the same, or any part thereof, unless the
assignment is duly stamped, and no payment shall be made to any person claiming under
any such assignment unless the same is duly stamped.
(2) If any payment is made in contravention of this section the duty not paid upon the
assignment together with the penalty payable on stamping the same, shall be a debt due to
the Government of the Federation from the person by whom the payment is made.
Receipts
89. Provisions as to duty upon receipts
(1) For the purposes of this Act, the expression "receipt" includes any note, memo-
randum, or writing whereby any money amounting to four naira or upwards, or any bill
of exchange or promissory note for the money amounting to four naira or upwards, is
acknowledged or expressed to have been received or deposited or paid, or whereby any
debt or demand, or any part of a debt or demand, of the amount of four naira or upwards,
is acknowledged to have been settled, satisfied, or discharged, or which signifies or im-
ports any such acknowledgement, and whether the same is or is not signed with the name
of any person.
(2) The duty upon a receipt may be denoted by an adhesive stamp which is to be can-
celled by the person by whom the receipt is given before he delivers it out of his hands.
90. Certain forms of receipts not dutiable
Neither the name of a banker (whether accompanied by words of receipt or not) writ-
ten in the ordinary course of his business as a banker upon a bill of exchange or promis-
sory note duly stamped, nor the name of a payee written upon a draft or order, if payable
to order, shall constitute a receipt chargeable with duty.
91. Terms upon which receipts may be stamped after execution and used in evi-
dence unstamped
(1) A receipt given without being stamped may be stamped with an impressed stamp
on the following terms- [28 of 1941.]
(a) within 28 days after it has been given, on payment of the duty and a penalty of
four naira;
(b) after 28 days, but within 56 days, on payment of the duty and a penalty of
twenty naira,
and shall not in any other case be stamped with an impressed stamp.
(2) The payment of the penalty under subsection (l) of this section shall be certified
on the face of the receipt under the hand of a commissioner.

(3) Where in any legal proceedings or before any arbitrator or referee a receipt is in-
admissible by reason of it not being duly stamped, the officer presiding over the court,
the arbitrator or referee may, having regard to the illiteracy and ignorance of the party
tendering the receipt in evidence, admit the receipt upon payment of a penalty of four
naira and the officer presiding over the court, the arbitrator or referee, as the case may be,
shall note the payment of the penalty upon the face of the receipt so admitted and a re-
ceipt shall be given for the same.
(4) A receipt so admitted in evidence shall not be deemed to be duly stamped but
shall be available for the purposes of the suit in which it is tendered in evidence and for
that purpose only.
(5) Where a person has been permitted under this subsection to tender a receipt not
duly stamped upon payment of the penalty of four naira, such person may recover the
said sum of four naira from the person whose duty it was to stamp the receipt at the time
when it was first issued.
(6) Nothing contained in this section shall relieve any person from any other penalty
incurred by him in relation to such receipt.
92. Penal ty for offences in reference to recei pts
If any person-
(a) gives a receipt liable to duty and not duly stamped; or
(b) in any case where a receipt would be liable to duty, refuses to give a receipt
duly stamped; or
(c) upon a payment to the amount of four naira or upwards, gives a receipt for a
sum not amounting to four naira, or separates or divides the amount paid with
the intent to evade the duty,
he shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of twenty naira.
Settlements
93. Provisions as to settlement of policy or security
Where any money which may become due or payable upon any policy of life insur-
ance, or upon any security not being a marketable security, is settled or agreed to be set-
tled, the instrument whereby the settlement is made or agreed to be made shall be charged
with ad valorem duty in respect of that money:
Provided that-
(a) where, in the case of a policy, no provision is made for keeping up the policy,
the ad valorem duty shall be charged only on the value of the policy at the date
of the instrument;
(b) if in any such case, the instrument contains a statement of the said value, and is
stamped in accordance with the statement, it shall, so far as regards the policy,
be deemed duly stamped, unless or until it is shown that the statement is un-
true, and that the instrument is in fact insufficiently stamped.

94. Settlements; when not to be charged as securities
An instrument chargeable with ad valorem duty as a settlement in respect of any
money, stock, or security shall not be charged with any further duty by reason of con-
taining provision for the payment or transfer of the money, stock, or security, or by rea-
son of containing, where the money, stock, or security is in reversion or is not paid or
transferred upon the execution of the instrument, provision for the payment by the person
entitled in possession to the interest or dividends of the money, stock, or security, during
the continuance of such possession, of any annuity or yearly sum not exceeding interest
at the rate of eight per cent per annum upon the amount or value of the money, stock or
security.
95. Where several ins truments, one onl y to be charged wi th ad valorem duty
(1) Where several instruments are executed for effecting the settlement of the same
property, and the ad valorem duty chargeable in respect of the settlement of the property
exceeds one naira, only one of the instruments shall be charged with the ad valorem duty.
(2) Where a settlement is made in pursuance of a previous agreement upon which ad
valorem settlement duty exceeding one naira has been paid in respect of any property, the
settlement shall not be charged with ad valorem duty in respect of the same property.
(3) In each of the aforesaid cases the instruments not chargeable with ad valorem
duty shall be charged with the duty of one naira.
Share warrants
96. Penal ty for issuing share warrant not duly stamped
If a share warrant or any instrument to bearer issued by or on behalf of any company
or body of persons formed or established in Nigeria and having a like effect as a share
warrant or any stock certificate to bearer is issued without being duly stamped, the com-
pany issuing the same, and also every person who, at the time when it is issued, is the
managing director or secretary or other principal officer of the company, shall be guilty
of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of one hundred naira.
Stock certificates to bearer
97. Meani ng of stock certificate to bearer
For the purposes of this Act, the expression "stock certificate to bearer" includes
every stock certificate to bearer issued after the coming into operation of this Act, under
the provisions of the Companies and Allied Matters Act, or of any other enactment
authorising the creation of debenture stock, corporation stock, municipal stock or funded
debt, by whatever name known, and also includes any instrument to bearer issued by or
on behalf of any company or body of persons formed or established in Nigeria and hav-
ing a like effect as such a stock certificate to bearer.
[Cap. C20.j
98. Penal ty for negl ecti ng to cancel stock certificate upon registrati on
(1) Where the holder of a stock certificate to bearer or an instrument to bearer
chargeable as a stock certificate to bearer has been entered on the register of any local

authority or corporation or company or body of persons formed or established in Nigeria,
as owner of the share of stock described in the certificate, the certificate shall be forth-
with cancelled so as to be incapable of being reissued to any person.
(2) Every person by whom a stock certificate to bearer or an instrument to bearer
chargeable as a stock certificate to bearer is issued without being duly stamped, shall be
guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of one hundred naira.
Warrant for goods
99. Meaning and provisions as to warrants for goods
(1) For the purposes of this Act, the expression "warrant for goods" means any
document or writing, being evidence of the title of any person therein named, or his as-
signs, or the holder thereof, to the property in any goods, wares of merchandise lying in
any warehouse or dock, or upon any wharf, and signed or certified by or on behalf of the
person having the custody of the goods, wares or merchandise.
(2) The duty upon a warrant for goods may be denoted by an adhesive stamp, which
shall be cancelled by the person by whom the instrument is made, executed or issued.
(3) Every person who makes, executes or issues, or receives, or takes by way of secu-
rity or indemnity, any warrant for goods not being duly stamped, shall be guilty of an
offence and liable on conviction to a fine of forty naira.
PA RT III
Supplemental
Duty on capital of companies
100. Charge of duty on capital of limited liability companies
(1) A statement of the amount which shall form the nominal share capital of any
company to be registered with limited liability and a statement of the amount of any in-
crease of registered capital of any company, shall be delivered to the Corporate Affairs
Commission established under the Companies and Allied Matters Act.
[L.N. 112 of 1964. Cap. C20.]
(2) The statements referred to in subsection (1) of this section shall be charged with
an ad valorem duty of one naira for every two hundred naira and any fraction of two
hundred naira over any multiple of two hundred naira of the amount of such capital or
increase of capital, as the case may be.
(3) The statement of the amount of any increase of registered capital which is re-
quired to be delivered to the Corporate Affairs Commission under subsection (1) of this
section shall be delivered duly stamped with the duty charged thereon within fifteen days
after the passing of the resolution by which the registered capital is increased, and, in
default of that delivery, the duty, with interest thereon at the rate of five per cent per an-
num from the passing of the resolution, shall be a debt to the Government of the Federa-
tion recoverable from the company.

101. Charge of duty on capi tal of companies wi th li mi ted li ability otherwise than
under Cap. C20
(1) Where, by virtue of any letters patent or by any Act or Law or by any other lawful
authority, the liability of holders of shares in the capital of any corporation or company is
limited otherwise than by registration with limited liability under the law in that behalf, a
statement of the amount of nominal share capital of the corporation or company shall be
delivered by the corporation or the company to the Corporate Affairs Commission within
one month after the date of the letters patent or the passing of the Act or Law or the
granting of the authority; and in case of any increase of the amount of the nominal share
capital of any corporation or company being authorised by any letters patent, Act or Law
or other authority, a statement of the amount of such increase shall be delivered by the
corporation or company to the Corporate Affairs Commission within the like period.
[L.N. 131 of 1954.]
(2) The statements referred to in subsection (1) of this section shall be charged with
an ad valorem duty of one naira for every two hundred naira and any fraction of two
hundred naira over any multiple of two hundred naira of the amount of such capital or
increase of capital, as the case may be.
(3) The statements to be delivered in accordance with subsection (1) of this section
shall be delivered with the duty charged thereon duly paid and in default of that delivery,
the corporation or company shall pay to the Minister or Governor, as the case may be, a
sum equal to ten per cent per annum upon the amount of duty payable, and a like penalty
for every month after the first month during which the default shall continue.
102. Duty on l oan capital
(1) Where any corporation, company or body of persons formed or established in Ni-
geria propose to issue any loan capital, they shall, before the issue thereof, deliver to the
Corporate Affair Commission a statement of the amount proposed to be secured by the
issue.
[L.N.1120fI964.]
(2) Subject to the provisions of this section, every such statement shall be charged
with ad valorem duty of 25 kobo for every 200 naira and any fraction of 200 naira over
any multiple of 200 naira of the amount proposed to be secured by the issue, and the
amount of the duty shall be a debt due to the Government of the Federation.
(3) The duty under this section shall not be charged to the extent to which it is shown
to the satisfaction of the Corporate Affairs Commission that the duty in respect of a
mortgage or marketable security has been paid on any trust deed or other document se-
curing the loan capital proposed to be issued.
(4) If any corporation, company or body of persons neglect to deliver a statement, or
fails to pay the duty in compliance with the provisions of this section, that corporation,
company or body of persons shall be liable to pay the Government of the Federation, in
addition to the duty, a sum equal to ten per cent upon the amount of the duty, and a like
sum for every month after the first month during which the neglect or failure continues.

Definition of "loan capital"
(5) In this Act and in section 102 of this Act, "loan capital" means any debenture
stock, other stock or funded debt by whatever name known or any capital raised by any
corporation, company or body of persons formed or established in Nigeria, which is bor-
rowed, or has the character of borrowed money, whether it is in the form or stock or in
any other form, but does not include any overdraft at the bank or other loan raised for a
merely temporary purpose for a period not exceeding twelve months.
103. Reduction of duty on loan capital issued for the purpose of the conversion or
consolidation of existing capital
(1) Where it is shown to the satisfaction of the Corporate Affairs Commission that
the loan capital issued by any corporation, company or body of persons, in respect of
which a statement is required to be issued under section 102 of this Act, has been wholly
or in part applied for the conversion or consolidation of then existing loan capital, that
corporation, company or body of persons, as the case may be, shall be entitled to repay-
ment in respect of the duty charged on the statement so delivered at the rate of twenty
kobo for every 200 naira of the capital to which the statement relates which is so shown
to have been applied for the purpose of the conversion or consolidation of the then exist-
ing loan capital; but this section shall not apply to any duty payable in respect of a mort-
gage or marketable security which has been paid on any trust deed or other document
securing the loan capital which has been issued.
(2) If it is represented to the Corporate Affairs Commission by such corporation,
company or body of persons that loan capital about to be issued by them is to be applied,
in whole or in part, for the purpose of the conversion or consolidation of existing loan
capital, the Corporate Affairs Commission may postpone the time or the delivery of the
statement and the payment of duty under section 102 of this Act until the capital has been
issued or until such other time as the Corporate Affairs Commission may think fit for the
purpose of enabling the payment and repayment of the duty to take place as far as practi-
cable as one transaction.
(3) The repayment shall be made by the Accountant-General upon receipt from the
Corporate Affairs Commission of such particulars as the Minister may generally or in any
particular case require to be given.
104. Relief from capital and transfer duty in case of reconstructions or amalgama-
tion of companies
(1) If in connection with a scheme for the reconstruction of any company or compa-
nies or the amalgamation of any companies it is shown to the satisfaction of a commis-
sioner that there exist the Following conditions, that is to say-
[L.N. 131 of 1954. L.N. 112 of 1964.]
(a) that a company with limited liability is to be registered, or that since the com-
mencement of this Act a company has been incorporated by letters patent, Act
or Law, or the nominal share capital of a company has been increased;
(b) that the company (in this section referred to as "the transferee company") is to
be registered or has been incorporated or has increased its capital with a view
to the acquisition either of the undertaking of, or of not less than ninety per
cent of the issued capital of, any particular existing company;

(c) that the consideration for the acquisition (except such part thereof as consists
in the transfer to or discharge by the transferee company of liabilities of the
existing company) consists as to not less than ninety per cent thereof-
(i) where an undertaking is to be acquired, in the issue of shares in the
transferee company to the existing company or to holders of shares in
the existing company; or
(ii) where shares are to be acquired, in the issue of shares in the transferee
company to the holders of shares in the existing company in exchange
for the shares held by them in the existing company,
then, subject to the provisions of this section, the provisions of subsections (2) and (3) of
this section shall have effect with respect to the relief from capital and transfer duty as a
result of the reconstruction or amalgamation of the company or companies, as the case
may be.
(2) The nominal share capital of the transferee company, or the amount by which the
capital of the transferee company has been increased, as the case may be, shall, for the
purpose of computing the duty chargeable in respect of that capital, be treated as being
reduced by either-
(a) an amount equal to the amount of the share capital of the existing company or,
in the case of the acquisition of a part of an undertaking, equal to such propor-
tion of the said share capital as the value of that part of the undertaking bears
to the whole value of the undertaking; or
(b) the amount to be credited as paid up on the shares to be issued as such consid-
eration as aforesaid and on the shares (if any) to be issued to creditors of the
existing company in consideration of the release of debts (whether secured or
unsecured) due or accruing due to them from the existing company or of the
assignment of such debts to the transferee company,
whichever amount is the less.
(3) Duty under the heading "CONVEYANCE OR TRANSFER SALE" in the Schedule to
this Act shall not be chargeable on any instruments made for the purposes of or in con-
nection with the transfer of the undertaking or shares or on any instrument made for the
purposes of or in connection with the assignment to the transferee company of any debts,
secured or unsecured, of the existing company, nor shall any such duty be chargeable
under section 62 of this Act on a copy of any Act or Law or on any instrument vesting, or
relating to the vesting of, the undertaking or shares in the transferee company:
Provided that-
(a) no such instrument shall be deemed to be duly stamped unless either it is
stamped with the duty to which it would but for this section be liable or it has,
in accordance with the provisions of section 16 of this Act, been certified by
the commissioner either that it is not chargeable with any duty or that it is duly
stamped; and
(b) in the case of an instrument made for the purposes of or in connection with a
transfer to a company within the meaning of the Companies and Allied Matters
Act, the provisions of this subsection shall not apply unless the instrument is
either-
[Cap. C20.]

(i) executed within a period of twelve months from the date of the regis-
tration of the transferee company or the date of the resolution for the
increase of the nominal share capital of the transferee company, as the
case may be; or
(ii) made for the purposes of effecting a conveyance or transfer in pursu-
ance of an agreement which has been filed, or particulars of which
have been filed with the Corporate Affairs Commission within the said
period of twelve months; and
(c) the foregoing provision with respect to the release and assignment of debts of
the existing company shall not, except in the case of debts due to banks or to
trade creditors, apply to debts which were incurred less than two years before
the proper time for making a claim for exemption under this section.
(4) For the purposes of a claim for exemption under subsection (3) of this section, a
company which has, in connection with a scheme of reconstruction or amalgamation,
issued any unissued share capital shall be treated as if it had increased its nominal share
capital.
(5) A company shall not be deemed to be a particular existing company within the
meaning of this section unless it is provided by the memorandum of association of, or the
letters patent, Act or Law incorporating the transferee company that one of the objects for
which the company is established is the acquisition of the undertaking of, or shares in, the
existing company or unless it appears from the resolution, Act or Law or other authority
for the increase of the capital of the transferee company that the increase is authorised for
the purpose of acquiring the undertaking of, or share in, the existing company.
(6) In a case where the undertakings of or shares in two or more companies are to be
acquired, the amount of the reduction to be allowed under this section, in respect of the
duty chargeable in respect of the nominal share capital or the increase of the capital of a
company, shall be computed separately in relation to each of those companies.
(7) Where a claim is made for exemption under this section, the commissioner may
require the delivery to him of a statutory declaration in such form as he may direct, made
in Nigeria by a legal practitioner, and of such further evidence (if any) as the commis-
sioner may reasonably require.
(8) If-
(a) where any claim for exemption from duty under this section has been allowed,
it is subsequently found that any declaration or other evidence furnished in
support of the claim was untrue in any material particular, or that the condi-
tions specified in subsection (1) of this section are not fulfilled in the recon-
struction or amalgamation as actually carried out; or
(b) where shares in the transferee company have been issued to the existing com-
pany in consideration of the acquisition, the existing company within a period
of two years from the date, as the case may be, of the registration or incorpo-
ration, or of the authority for the increase of the capital, of the transferee com-
pany ceases, otherwise than in consequence of reconstruction, amalgamation
or liquidation, to be the beneficial owner of the shares so issued to it; or

(c) where any such exemption has been allowed in connection with the acquisition
by the transferee company of shares in another company, the transferee com-
pany within a period of two years from the date of its registration or incorpo-
ration or of the authority for the increase of its capital, as the case may be,
ceases, otherwise than in consequence of reconstruction, amalgamation or liq-
uidation, to be the beneficial owner of the shares so acquired,
the exemption shall be deemed not to have been allowed, and an amount equal to the duty
remitted shall become payable forthwith, and shall be recoverable from the transferee
company as a debt due to the Government of the Federation, together with interest
thereon at the rate of five per cent per annum in the case of duty remitted under subsec-
tion (2) of this section from the date of the registration or incorporation of the transferee
company or the increase of its capital, as the case may be, and in the case of duty remitted
under subsection (3) of this section of the said subsection from the date on which it would
have become chargeable if this section had not been passed.
(9) If in the case of any scheme of reconstruction or amalgamation, a commissioner
is satisfied that at the proper time for making a claim for exemption from duty under sub-
sections (2) and (3) of this section there were in existence all the necessary conditions for
such exemption other than the condition that not less than ninety per cent of the issued
share capital of the existing company would be acquired by the transferee company, the
commissioner may, if it is proved to his satisfaction that not less than ninety per cent of
the issued capital of the existing company has under the scheme been acquired within a
period of six months from the earlier of the two following dates, that is to say-
(a) the last day of the period of one month after the first allotment of shares made
for the purposes of the acquisition; or
(b) the date on which an invitation was issued to the shareholders of the existing
company to accept shares in the transferee company,
and on production of the instruments on which the duty paid has been paid, direct repay-
ment to be made of such an amount of duty as would have been remitted if the said con-
ditions had been originally fulfilled.
Definitions
(l0) In this section, unless the context otherwise requires-
(a) references to the undertaking of an existing company include references to a
part of the undertaking of an existing company; and
(b) the expression "shares" includes stock.
105. Relief from transfer duty i n case of transfer of property as between associ ated
companies
(l) Duty under the heading "CONVEYANCE OR TRANSFER ON SALE" in the Schedule
to this Act shall not be chargeable on an instrument to which this section applies:
[28 of 1941.]
Provided that no such instrument shall be deemed to be duly stamped unless either
it is stamped with the duty to which it would but for this section be liable, or it has in

accordance with the provisions of section 15 been certified by a commissioner either that
it is not chargeable with any duty or that it is duly stamped.
(2) This section applies to any instrument as respects which it is shown to the satis-
faction of the commissioner that the instrument was not executed in pursuance of or in
connection with an arrangement whereunder-
(a) the consideration for the transfer or conveyance was to be provided directly or
indirectly by a person other than a company which at the time of the execution
of the instrument was associated with either the transferor or the transferee; or
(b) the beneficial interest in the property was previously conveyed or transferred
directly or indirectly by such person as aforesaid.
(3) For the purpose of this section, a company shall be deemed to be associated with
another company if, but not unless, both are companies with limited liability, and ei-
ther-
(a) one of them is the beneficial owner of not less than ninety per cent of the is-
sued share capital of the other; or
(b) not less than ninety per cent of the issued share capital of each of them is in the
beneficial ownership of a third company with limited liability.
Miscellaneous
106. Innocent person sufferi ng l oss may recover ag ai nst g uilty pers on
Where any person, by the production of an unstamped or insufficiently stamped In-
strument or otherwise, renders himself subject to a fine, penalty or forfeiture and is made
thereby to suffer any fine, penalty or forfeiture but is not the person whose duty it was by
law originally to provide for the stamping of the document, such first mentioned person
shall upon proof to the satisfaction of a court that he was not the person originally re-
sponsible for having the document stamped and that he has thereby suffered a fine, pen-
alty or forfeiture, be entitled to obtain judgment for the amount to which he has been pe-
nalised, together with costs, against the person whose duty it originally was to have the
document stamped.
107. Power to make reg ul ati ons for compounding duty
Where the collection of duty or the stamping of instruments according to the provi-
sions of this Act is impracticable or inexpedient, or where such collection or stamping
causes undue inconvenience to trade or business or where the exercise of the power con-
ferred by this section is in the interest of Nigeria or of a State thereof, the President or
Governor, as the case may be, may make regulations-
[L.N. ) 3) of ) 954.]
(a) for compounding any duty; or
(b) for delivery of accounts by, and collecting duty from, the persons making or
issuing the instruments upon which the duty is charged.
108. Conditi ons and agreements as to duty voi d
Every condition of sale framed with the view of precluding objection or requisition
upon the ground of absence or insufficiency of stamp upon any instrument executed after

the commencement of this Act, and every contract, arrangement, or undertaking for as-
suming the liability on account of absence or insufficiency of stamp upon any such in-
strument or indemnifying against such liability, absence or insufficiency, shall be void.
109. Provisi on for remission of duty in certain cases
Where it is shown to the satisfaction of the President or Governor that duty has been
paid on an instrument in Nigeria in addition to stamp duty already paid elsewhere, the
President or Governor, as the case may be, may, if he considers it advisable in the interest
of Nigeria or of the State, as the case may be, to do so, authorise a refund of the duty paid
in Nigeria, or such portion thereof as may to him seem fit.
[L.N. 131 of 1954.]
110. Duty and debts recoverabl e wi th fi nes and penalties
Proceedings for the recovery of any duty imposed by this Act or for the recovery of
any debt due to the Government of the Federation under this Act may be included in any
proceedings for the recovery of a fine or penalty under this Act.
111. Duties and fines may be recovered summaril y
All duties, fines, penalties and debts due to the Government of the Federation im-
posed by this Act shall be recoverable in a summary manner in the name of the Attorney-
General of the Federation or of the State.
[L.N. 131 of 1954. L.N. 112 o f 1964.]
112. Fi xed penal ties
The amount to which any person is declared to be liable in respect of any fine or pen-
alty and the amount due as a debt to the Government of the Federation under this Act
shall not, except as hereinafter provided, be subject to any mitigation.
[L.N. 112 of 1964.]
113. Power to mitig ate fi nes and stay proceedi ngs
(1) The President or Governor, as the case may be, may in his discretion mitigate any
fine or penalty or debt due to the Government of the Federation under this Act or stay or
compound any proceedings for recovery thereof and may also after judgment further
mitigate or entirely remit any such fine, penalty or debt.
[L.N. 131 of 1954.]
(2) The decision of the President or Governor, as the case may be, to stay or com-
pound any proceedings which have been commenced, may be intimated to the court by a
law officer or State counsel or some person on behalf of a law officer or State counsel.
114. Fi nes and penalties recoverable wi thin fi ve years
All proceedings for the recovery of any duty, fine, penalty and debt due to the Gov-
ernment of the Federation imposed by this Act, may be commenced or prosecuted at any
time within five years after the offence committed by reason whereof such duty, tine,
penalty or debt shall be incurred. [L.N. 112 of 1964.]
115. Power to make regulations relating to stamp duties
In addition to the powers conferred on him by sections 15 and 105 of this Act, the

President and the Governor of a State may make regulations relating-
(a) to the custody of the dies to be used under this Act;
(b) to the circumstances in which allowance shall be made for spoiled stamps;
(c) to the accounting for the revenue derived from stamp duties;
(d) to the substitution of adhesive stamps for impressed stamps, or of impressed
stamps for adhesive stamps, or of revenue stamps for postage and revenue
stamps;
(e) to the manner in which and the persons by whom impressed stamps shall be
affixed to documents; and
(f ) to the further and better carrying into effect of the objects and purposes of this
Act.
116. Schedule may be varied by resolution and order
(1) The National Assembly may by resolution increase, diminish or repeal the duty
chargeable under any of the heads specified in the Schedule to this Act in respect of the
documents regarding which the Government of the Federation is competent to make
laws, and in respect of any other matter within such competence may add new duties or
otherwise add to, vary or revoke the Schedule.
[L.N. 131 of 1954.]
(2) The House of Assembly of a State may by resolution increase, diminish or repeal
the duty chargeable under any of the heads specified in the Schedule in respect of docu-
ments regarding which the Government of a State is exclusively competent to make laws,
and in respect of any other matter within such exclusive competence may add new duties
or otherwise add to, vary or revoke the Schedule.
117. Certain temporary occupation licences not liable to duty under Cap. 126 of
the 1923 edition
Whereas doubts have arisen as to whether or not a temporary occupation, licence
granted under the Land Use Act previous to the coming into force of this Act is liable to
stamp duty under the Stamp Act, it is hereby declared that all such instruments which
have not previously been stamped shall be deemed not to have been liable to stamp duty
under the said Act.
[Cap. L5. Cap. 126 of 1923 Edition.]
118. Repeal of Cap. 126 of 1923 edition and amending Act
The Stamp Act, the Stamp (Amendment) Act, 1928, the Stamp (Amendment) Act,
1931; all Orders in Council made under section 4 of the Stamp Act, all regulations and all
appointments made under the Stamp Act are hereby respectively repealed, revoked and
cancelled:
[Cap. 126 of 1923 Edition.]

Provided that where an instrument has been first executed before the coming into
operation of this Act such instrument shall be stamped in accordance with the provisions
of the Act hereby repealed.