2. Short title

This Act may be cited as the United Nations Convention on Carriage of Goods by Sea
(Ratification and Enforcement) Act, 2005.

SCHEDULE
[Section 1]

11.5.220 (The Hamburg Rules, 1978) United Nations Convention on the

Carriage of Goods by Sea, 1978

The State Parties to this Convention,

HAVING RECOGNlSED the desirability of determining by agreement certain rules relating to the carriage of goods by sea.

HAVE DECIDED to conclude a Convention for this purpose and have thereto agreed as follows-

PART I

General Provisions

ARTICLE 1

Definitions

In this Convention-

1. "Carrier" means any person by whom or in whose name a contract of carriage of
goods by sea has been concluded with a shipper.

2. "Actual carrier" means any person to whom the performance of the carriage of the
goods, or of part of the carriage, has been entrusted by the carrier, and includes any other
person to whom such performance has been entrusted.

3. "Shipper" means any person by whom or in whose name or on whose behalf a contract
of carriage of goods by sea has been concluded with a carrier, or any person by whom or
in whose name or on whose behalf the goods are actually delivered to the carrier in relation to
the contract of carriage by sea.

4. "Consignee" means the person entitled to take delivery of the goods.

5. "Goods" includes live animals; where the goods are consolidated in a container, palletor similar article of transport or where they are packed, "goods" includes such article of transport or packaging if supplied by the shipper.

6. "Contract of carriage by sea" means any contract whereby the carrier undertakes
against payment of freight to carry goods by sea from one port to another; however, a contract
which involves carriage by sea and also carriage by some other means is deemed to be a contract
of carriage by sea for the purposes of this Convention only in so far as it relates to the
carriage by sea.

7. "Bill of lading" means a document which evidences a contract of carriage by sea and
the taking over or loading of the goods by the carrier, and by which the carrier undertakes to
deliver the goods against surrender of the document. A provision in the document that the
goods are to be delivered to the order of a named person, or to order, or to bearer, constitutes
such an undertaking.

8. "Writing"
includes, inter alia, telegram and telex.

ARTICLE 2

Scope of Ap plication