1. Establishment and general purposes of the University

(1) There is hereby established, as the successor of the University College, Ibadan, a
university which shall be a body corporate by the name of the University of Ibadan (in
this Act referred to as "the University") and shall be constituted in accordance with the
provisions of this Act.

(2) It shall be the general function of the university to encourage the advancement of
learning throughout Nigeria and to hold out to all persons, without distinction of race,
creed or sex, the opportunity of acquiring a liberal education; and for the purpose of carrying
out that function it shall be the duty of the University, so far as its resources permit-

(a) to provide such facilities for the pursuit of learning and the acquisition of a
liberal education as are appropriate for a university of the highest standing; and

(b) to make those facilities available on proper terms to such persons as are
equipped to benefit from the use of the facilities.

2. Constitution of the University

(1) The University shall consist of-

(a) a Chancellor;

(b) a Pro-Chancellor and a Council;

(c) a Vice-Chancellor and a Senate;

(d) a body to be called Congregation;

(e) a body to be called Convocation;

(f) the persons holding offices constituted by the First Schedule to this Act and
not mentioned in the foregoing provisions of this section;

(First Schedule.]

(g) all graduates and undergraduates; and

(h) all other persons who are members of the University in accordance with provision made by statute in that behalf.

(First Schedule.]

(2) The First Schedule to this Act shall have effect with respect to the principal offi-
cers of the University therein mentioned; and subject to section 4 of this Act, the Second
Schedule to this Act shall have effect with respect to the bodies referred to in the foregoing subsection.

(Second Schedule.]

3. Functions of the Chancellor and Pro-Chancellor

(1) The Chancellor shall, in relation to the University, take precedence before all
other members of the University, and when he is present shall preside at all meetings of
Congregation held for conferring degrees and at all meetings of Convocation.

(2) The Pro-Chancellor shall, in relation to the U ni versity, take precedence before all
other members of the University except the Chancellor and except the Vice-Chancellor
when acting as chairman of Congregation or Convocation and except the deputy Vice-
Chancellor when so acting and the Pro-Chancellor shall when he is present be the chairman
at all meetings of the Council.

4. Composition of the Council

The Council of the University shall consist of-

(1993 No. 11. 1996 No. 25.]

(a) the Pro-Chancellor;

(b) the Vice-Chancellor;

(c) the Deputy Vice-Chancellors;

(d) one person from the Ministry responsible for education;

(e) nine persons representing a variety of interests and broadly representative of
the whole Federation to be appointed by the President;

(f) four persons appointed by the Senate from among its members;

(g) two persons appointed by the Congregation from among its members;

(h) one person appointed by Convocation from among its members.

5. Functions of the Council

(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act relating to the Visitor, the Council shall be
the governing body of the University and shall have the general management of the
affairs of the University and in particular the control of the property and expenditure of the
University.

(2) Subject to subsection (6) of this section, the Council shall have power to do anything
which in its opinion is calculated to facilitate the carrying on of the activities of the University.

(3) The Council may make statutes regulating the constitution and conduct of the
University and regulating any authority or matter connected with the university; and a
statute may alter or repeal any provision of this Act but shall not-

(a) come into force until it has been confirmed by the Minister; or

(b) have effect in any part of Nigeria in so far as it is inconsistent with the law in
force in that part of Nigeria.

(4) The Minister shall, on confirming a statute, forthwith lay a copy of it before each
House of the National Assembly; and if either House, on any of the twenty days on which
it sits next after the day on which the statute is laid before it, resolves that the statute be
annulled, it shall cease to have effect on the day next following the date of the resolution
and be deemed never to have had effect.

(5) Nothing in subsection (3) or (4) of this section shall be construed as preventing
the Council from giving instructions, in writing or otherwise, for the purpose of exercising
any power conferred on it by subsection (2) of this section.

(6) The Council shall not have power to dispose of or charge any lands or an interest
in any lands (including any lands transferred to the University by this Act) which are held
by or on behalf of the University except with the prior written consent, either general or
special, of the Minister.

(7) There shall be a committee of the Council, to be known as the Finance and General
Purposes Committee, which shall, subject to the directions of the Council, exercise
control over the property and expenditure of the University, and shall consist of-

(a) the Pro-Chancellor, who shall be the chairman of the Committee at any
meeting at which he is present; and

(b) the Vice-Chancellor; and

(c) eight other members of the Council appointed by the council, of whom-

(i) not less than two shall be teachers; and

(ii) if the Council has appointed a treasurer, one shall be the treasurer,
and the quorum of the Committee shall be four and (subject to the provisions of this sub-
section) the Committee may regulate its own procedure.

(8) The Council shall keep proper accounts in respect of the period of twelve months
ending with the thirty-first day of December in each year, and proper records in relation
to those accounts; and without prejudice to any other requirement as to accounting or
control imposed, whether by an enactment or otherwise, with respect to the finances of
and the lands, endowments and other property held by or for the purposes of the University,
the Council shall cause the accounts kept in pursuance of this subsection for any
period to be audited as soon as may be after the end of that period by an approved auditor
within the meaning of section 20 of the Banks and other Financial Institutions Act (which
provides for the accounts of banks to be audited by a member of a professional body approved
by the Minister of the government of the Federation responsible for finance).

[Cap. B3.]

(9) The council shall prepare and submit to the President, not later than the thirty-first
day of January in each year, a report in such form as the President may direct on the
activities of the university during the period of twelve months ending with the preceding
thirty-first day of December, and shall include in the report a copy of the last accounts
audited in accordance with subsection (8) of this section and a copy of the auditor's report
on the accounts; and the President shall cause a copy of each report made to him in
pursuance of this subsection to be laid before each House of the National Assembly.

6. Functions of the Senate

(1) Subject to the last foregoing section and the provisions of this Act relating to the
Visitor, it shall be the general function of the senate to organise and control the teaching
at the University and the admission and discipline of students and to promote research at
the University.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing subsection and subject as
there mentioned, it shall in particular be the function of the Senate to make provision
for-

(a) the establishment, organisation and control of faculties and other departments
of the University, and the allocation to different departments of responsibility
for different branches of learning;

(b) the appointment and promotion of teachers at the University;

(c) the organisation and control of courses of study at the University and of the
examinations held in conjunction with those courses;

(d) the award of degrees, and such other qualifications as may be prescribed, in
connection with examinations held as aforesaid;

(e) the making of recommendations to the Council with respect to the award to
any person of any honorary fellowship or honorary degree or the title of professor emeritus;

(f) the selection of persons for admission as students at the U ni versity;

(g) the establishment, organisation and control of halls of residence and similar
institutions at the University;

(h) the supervision of the welfare of students at the University and the regulation
of their conduct;

(i) the grant of fellowship, scholarships, prizes and similar awards, in so far as the
awards are within the control of the University; and

(j) determining what descriptions of dress shall be academic dress for the purposes
of the University, and regulating the use of academic dress.

(3) The Senate may make regulations for the purpose of exercising any function conferred
on it either by the foregoing provisions of this section or otherwise.

(4) Regulations shall provide that at least one of the persons appointed as the examiners at
each examination held in conjunction with any course of study at the university is
not a teacher at the University but is a teacher of the branch of learning to which the
course relates at some other university of high repute.

(5) Any department established for the University and designated by regulations as a
faculty of the University shall be organised in accordance with the provisions of the Third