1. Meaning of workman
(1) Subject to this section and to section 2 of this Act, a person shall be deemed to be
a workman if either before or after the commencement of this Act he has entered into or
is working under a contract of service or apprenticeship with an employer, whether by
way of manual labour, clerical work or otherwise, and whether the contract is expressed
or implied, is oral or in writing.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, a person shall not be deemed to be
a workman if-
(a) he is a person employed under a contract of service or collective agreement
approved for exemption by the Minister charged with responsibility for matters
relating to labour; or
(b) a person who is employed otherwise than for the purposes of his employer's
trade or business, not being a person employed for the purposes of any game or
recreation and engaged or paid through a club; or
(c) an outworker; or
(d) a member of the employer's family dwelling in his house; or
(e) a person employed in agricultural or handicraft work by an employer who
normally employs less than ten workmen; or
(f) any class of persons whom the Minister may by order published in the Federal
Gazette declare not to be workmen for the purposes of this Act.
(3) If in any proceedings for the recovery of compensation under this Act, it appears
to the court that the contract of service or apprenticeship under which the injured person
was working at the time when the accident causing the injury happened was illegal, the
court may, if having regard to all the circumstances of the case it thinks proper so to do,
deal with the matter as if the injured person had at the same time aforesaid been a person
working under a valid contract of service or apprenticeship.
(4) Except for the purposes of section 16 of this Act, any reference to a workman
who has been injured shall, unless the context otherwise requires, where the workman is
dead, include a reference to his legal personal representatives, or to his dependants or any
of them or the Attorney-General of the Federation or such other officer as the Minister
may appoint to act on behalf of the dependants of the workman.
(5) In this section, contract of service includes service as a tributer.
2. Application to workmen employed by the Government
(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, this Act shall apply to a workman em-
ployed-
(a) in the public service of the Federation or of any State thereof; and
(b) in the Nigeria Police Force,
in the same way and to the same extent as if the employer were a pri vate person.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of subsection (1) of this sec-
tion, this Act shall not apply to-
(a) any member of the Nigerian Army, the Nigerian Navy or the Nigerian Air
Force other than a person employed in a civilian capacity; or
(b) any workman employed in the public service of the Federation who has been
first engaged in a place outside Nigeria and is not a Nigerian citizen.
(3) In this section, the expression "public service of the Federation or of any State
thereof' has the meaning assigned to it in section 318 of the Constitution of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria, 1999.
[Cap. C23.)
3. Employer's liability for compensation for death or incapacity resulting from
accident
(1) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, if in an employment personal injury by
accident arising out of and in the course of the employment is caused to a workman, his
employer shall, subject as hereinafter mentioned, be liable to pay compensation in accor-
dance with the provisions of this Act.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section-
(a) an employer shall not be liable to pay compensation under this Act in respect
of any injury which does not incapacitate the workman for a period of at least
three consecutive days from earning full wages at the work at which he was
employed;
(b) if it is proved that the injury to a workman is attributable to the serious and
wilful misconduct of that workman, any compensation claimed in respect of
that injury shall be disallowed,
but where the injury results in death or serious and permanent incapacity, the court, on a
consideration of all the circumstances, may award the compensation provided by this Act
or such part thereof as it shall think fit.
(3) For the purposes of this Act, an accident resulting in the death or serious and
permanent incapacity of a workman shall be deemed to arise out of and in the course of
his employment, notwithstanding that the workman was at the time when the accident
happened acting in contravention-
(a) of any statutory or other regulation applicable to his employment; or
(b) of any orders given by or on behalf of his employer; or
(c) that he was acting without instructions from his employer,
if such act was done by the workman for the purposes of and in connection with his em-
ployer's trade or business.
(4) No compensation shall be payable under this Act in respect of any incapacity or
death resulting from a deliberate self-injury.
(5) No compensation shall be payable under this Act in respect of any incapacity or
death resulting from personal injury, if the workman has at any time represented to the
employer that he was not suffering or had not previously suffered from that or a similar
injury, knowing that the representation was false.
4. Compensation in fatal cases
Where death results from the injury and-
(a) the workman leaves any dependant wholly dependent on his earning, the
amount of compensation shall be a sum equal to 42 months' earnings; but
where in respect of the same accident compensation has been paid under the
provisions of section 5, 7, or 9 of this Act, there shall be deducted from the
sum payable under this paragraph any sums so paid as compensation;
(b) the workman does not leave any dependant wholly dependent on his earnings,
but leaves any dependant in part so dependent, the amount of compensation
shall be such sum, in any case not exceeding the amount payable under para-
graph (a) of this section, as may be determined by the court to be reasonable
and proportionate to the injury, to the said dependant;
(c) the workman leaves no dependant, reasonable expenses commensurate with

the last position held in his employment by the deceased, shall be paid by the
employer.
5. Compensation in the case of permanent total incapacity
Where permanent total incapacity results from the injury, the amount of compensation
shall be a sum equal to 54 months' earnings.
6. Additional compensation
Where an injury results in permanent total incapacity of such a nature that the injured
workman must have the constant help of another person, additional compensation shall
be paid amounting to one quarter of the amount which is otherwise payable under sec-
tion 5 of this Act.
7. Compensation in the case of permanent partial incapacity
(1) Where permanent partial incapacity results from the injury, the amount of com-
pensation shall be-
(a) in the case of an injury specified in the Second Schedule to this Act, such per-
centage of the compensation which would have been payable in the case of the
permanent total incapacity as is specified therein as being the percentage of the
loss of earning capacity caused by that injury; and
[Second Schedule.]
(b) in the case of an injury not specified in the Second Schedule to this Act, such
percentage of the compensation which would have been payable in the case of
permanent total incapacity as is not inconsistent with the provisions of the said