1. Form of arbitration agreement

(1) Every arbitration agreement shall be in writing contained-

(a) in a document signed by the parties; or

(b) in an exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or other means of communication which provide a record of the arbitration agreement; or

(c) in an exchange of points of claim and of defence in which the existence of an arbitration agreement is alleged by one party and not denied by another.

(2) Any reference in a contract to a document containing an arbitration clause constitutes an arbitration agreement if such contract is in writing and the reference is such as to make that clause part of the contract.

2. Arbitration agreement irrevocable except by agreement or leave of court

Unless a contrary intention is expressed therein, an arbitration agreement shall be irrevocable except by agreement of the parties or by leave of the court or a judge.

3. Death of party

An arbitration agreement shall not be invalid by reason of the death of any party thereto but shall, in such an event, be enforceable by or against the personal representative of the deceased.

4. Arbitration agreement and substantive claim before court

(1) A court before which an action, which is the subject of an arbitration agreement is brought shall, if any party so requests not later than when submitting his first statement on the substance of the dispute, order a stay of proceedings and refer the parties to arbitration.

(2) Where an action referred to in subsection (1) of this section has been brought before a court, arbitral proceedings may nevertheless be commenced or continued, and an award may be made by the arbitral tribunal while the matter is pending before the court.

5. Power to stay proceedings

(1) If any party to an arbitration agreement commences any action in any court with respect to any matter which is the subject of an arbitration agreement, any party to the arbitration agreement may, at any time after appearance and before delivering any pleadings or taking any other steps in the proceedings, apply to the court to stay the proceedings.

(2) A court to which an application is made under subsection (1) of his section may, if it is satisfied-

Arbitration and Conciliation Act

(a) that there is no sufficient reason why the matter should not be referred to arbitration in accordance with the arbitration agreement; and

(b) that the applicant was at the time when the action was commenced and still remains ready and willing to do all things necessary to the proper conduct of the arbitration,

make an order staying the proceedings.

Composition of Arbitral Tribunal

6. Number of arbitrators

The parties to an arbitration agreement may determine the number of arbitrators to be appointed under the agreement, but where no such determination is made, the number of arbitrators shall be deemed to be three.

7. Appointment of arbitrators

(1) Subject to subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the parties may specify in the arbitration agreement the procedure to be followed in appointing an arbitrator.

(2) Where no procedure is specified under subsection (1) of this section-

(a)        in the case of an arbitration with three arbitrators, each party shall appoint one arbitrator and the two thus appointed shall appoint the third, so however, that-

(i)     if a party fails to appoint the arbitrator within thirty days of receipt of a request to do so by the other party; or

(ii)     if the two arbitrators fail to agree on the third arbitrator within thirty days of their appointments,

the appointment shall be made by the Court on the application of any party to the arbitration agreement;

(b)       in the case of an arbitration with one arbitrator, where the parties fail to agree on the arbitrator, the appointment shall be made by the Court on the application of any party to the arbitration agreement made within thirty days of such disagreement.

(3) Where, under an appointment procedure agreed upon by the parties-

(a) a party fails to act as required under the procedure; or

(b) the parties or two arbitrators are unable to reach agreement as required under the procedure; or

(c) a third party, including an institution, fails to perform any duty imposed on it under the procedure,

any party may request the Court to take the necessary measure, unless the appointment procedure agreed upon by the parties provides other means for securing the appointment.

(4) A decision of the Court under subsections (2) and (3) of this section shall not be subject to appeal.

(5) The Court in exercising its power of appointment under subsections (2) and (3) of this section shall have due regard to any qualifications required of the arbitrator by the arbitration agreement and such other consideration as are likely to secure the appointment of an independent and impartial arbitrator.

8. Grounds for challenge

(1) Any person who knows of any circumstances likely to give rise to any justifiable doubts as to his impartiality or independence shall, when approached in connection with an appointment as arbitrator, forthwith disclose such circumstances to the parties.

(2) The duty to disclose imposed under subsection (1) of this section shall, continue after a person has been appointed as an arbitrator and subsist throughout the arbitral proceedings, unless the arbitrator had previously disclosed the circumstances to the parties.

(3) An arbitrator may be challenged-

(a)        if circumstances exist that give rise to justifiable doubts as to his impartiality or independence; or

(b)        if he does not possess the qualifications agreed by the parties.

9. Challenge procedure

(1) The parties may determine the procedure to be followed in challenging an arbitrator.

(2) Where no procedure is determined under subsection (1) of this section, a party who intends to challenge an arbitrator shall, within fifteen days of becoming aware of the constitution of the arbitral tribunal or becoming aware of any circumstances referred to in section 8 of this Act, send to the arbitral tribunal a written statement of the reasons for the challenge.

(3) Unless the arbitrator who has been challenged withdraws from office or the other party agrees to the challenge, the arbitral tribunal shall decide on the challenge.

10. Termination of mandate due to failure or impossibility to act

(1) The mandate of an arbitrator shall terminate if-

(a) he withdraws from office; or

(b) the parties agree to terminate his appointment by reason of his inability to perform his functions; or

(c) for any other reason he fails to act without undue delay.

(2) The fact that-

(a) an arbitrator withdraws from office under subsection (1) of this section or under section 9 (3) of this Act; or

(b) a party agrees to the termination of the mandate of an arbitrator,

shall not be construed as implying the existence of any ground or circumstances referred to in subsection (1) of this section or section 8 (1) of this Act.

Arbitration and Conciliation Act

11. Appointment of substitute arbitrator

Where the mandate of an arbitrator terminates-

(a) under section 9 or 10 of this Act; or

(b) because of his withdrawal from office for any reason whatsoever; or

(c) because of the revocation of his mandate by agreement of the parties; or

(d) because of any other reason whatsoever,

a substitute arbitrator shall be appointed in accordance with the same rules and procedure that applied to the appointment of the arbitrator who is being replaced.

Jurisdiction of Arbitral Tribunal

12. Competence of arbitral tribunal to rule on its jurisdiction

(1) An arbitral tribunal shall be competent to rule on questions pertaining to its own jurisdiction and on any objections with respect to the existence or validity of an arbitration agreement.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) of this section, an arbitration clause which forms part of a contract shall be treated as an agreement independent of the other terms of the contract and a decision by the arbitral tribunal that the contract is null and void shall not entail ipso jure the validity of the arbitration clause.

(3) In any arbitral proceedings, a plea that the arbitral tribunal-

(a)       does not have jurisdiction may be raised not later than the time of submission of the points of defence and a party is not precluded from raising such plea by reason that he has appointed or participated in the appointment of an arbitrator;

(b)       is exceeding the scope of its authority may, be raised as soon as the matter alleged to be beyond the scope of its authority is raised during the proceedings,

and the arbitral tribunal may, in either case admit a later plea if it considers that the delay was justified.

(4) The arbitral tribunal may, rule on any plea referred to it under subsection (3) of this section, either as a preliminary question or in an award on the merits; and such ruling shall be final and binding.

13. Power of arbitral tribunal to order interim measure of protection

Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral tribunal may before or during an arbitral proceedings -

(a)        at the request of a party, order any party to take such interim measure of protection as the arbitral tribunal may consider necessary in respect of the subject matter of the dispute; and

(b)        require any party to provide appropriate security in connection with any measure taken under paragraph (a) of this section.

Conduct of Arbitral Proceedings

14. Equal treatment of parties

In any arbitral proceedings, the arbitral tribunal shall ensure that the parties are accorded equal treatment and that each party is given full opportunity of presenting his case.

15. Arbitral proceedings

(1) The arbitral proceedings shall be in accordance with the procedure contained in the Arbitration Rules set out in the First Schedule to this Act.

[First Schedule.]

(2) Where the rules referred to in subsection (1) of this section, contain no provision in respect of any matter related to or connected with a particular arbitral proceedings, the arbitral tribunal may, subject to this Act, conduct the arbitral proceedings in such a manner as it considers appropriate so as to ensure a fair hearing.

(3) The power conferred on the arbitral tribunal under subsection (2) of this section shall, include the power to determine the admissibility, relevance, materiality and weight of any evidence placed before it.

16. Place of arbitration

(1) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the place of the arbitral proceedings shall be determined by the arbitral tribunal having regard to the circumstances of the case, including the convenience of the parties.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) of this section and unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral tribunal may meet at any place it considers appropriate for consultation among its members, for hearing witnesses, experts or the parties, or for the inspection or documents, goods or other property.

17. Commencement of arbitral proceedings

Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral proceedings in respect of a particular dispute shall commence on the date the request to refer the dispute to arbitration is received by the other party.

18. Language to be used in arbitral proceedings

(1) The parties may by agreement determine the language or languages to be used in the arbitral proceedings, but where they do not do so, the arbitral tribunal shall determine the language or languages to be used, bearing in mind the relevant circumstances of the case.

(2) Any language or languages agreed upon by the parties or determined by the arbitral tribunal under subsection (1) of this section, shall, unless a contrary intention is expressed by the parties or the arbitral tribunal, be the language or languages to be used in any written statements by the parties, in any hearing, award, decision or any other communication in the course of the arbitration.

Arbitration and Conciliation Act

(3) The arbitral tribunal may order that any documentary evidence shall be accompanied by a translation into the language or languages agreed upon by the parties or determined by the arbitral tribunal under subsection (1) of this section.

19. Points of claim and defence

(1) The claimant shall, within the period agreed upon by the parties or determined by the arbitral tribunal, state the facts supporting his points of claim, the points at issue and the relief or remedy sought by him, and the respondent shall state his points of defence in respect of those particulars, unless the parties have otherwise agreed on the required elements of the points of claim and of defence.

(2) The parties may submit with their statements under subsection (1) of this section, all the documents they consider to be relevant or they may add a reference to the documents, or other evidence they hope to submit at the arbitral proceedings.

(3) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, a party may amend or supplement his claim or defence during the course of the arbitral proceedings, if the arbitral tribunal considers it appropriate to allow such amendment or supplement, having regard to the time that has elapsed before the making of the amendment or supplement.

20. Hearing and written proceedings

(1) Subject to any contrary agreement by the parties, the arbitral tribunal shall decide whether the arbitral proceedings shall be conducted-

(a) by holding oral hearings for the presentation of evidence or oral arguments; or

(b) on the basis of documents or other materials; or

(c) by both holding oral hearings and on the basis of documents or other materials as provided in paragraphs (a)

and (b) of this subsection,

and unless the parties have agreed that no hearing shall be held, the arbitral tribunal shall hold such hearings at an appropriate stage of the proceedings if requested so to do by any of the parties.

(2) The arbitral tribunal shall give to the parties sufficient advance notice of any hearing and of any meeting of the arbitral tribunal, held for the purposes of inspection of documents, goods, or other property.

(3) Every statement, document or other information supplied to the arbitral tribunal shall be communicated to the other party by the party supplying the statement, document or other information, and every such statement, document or other information supplied by the arbitral tribunal to one party shall be supplied to the other party.

(4) Any expert report or evidentiary document on which the arbitral tribunal may rely in making its decision shall be communicated to the parties.

(5) The arbitral tribunal shall, unless otherwise agreed by the parties, have power to administer oaths to or take the affirmations of the parties and witnesses appearing.

(6) Any party to an arbitral proceeding may, issue out a writ of subpoena ad testificandum or subpoena duces tecum, but no person shall be compelled under any such writ to produce any document which he could not be compelled to produce on the trial of an action.

Arbitration and Conciliation Act

21. Default of a party

Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, if, without showing sufficient cause-

(a)              the claimant fails to state his claim as required under section 19 (1) of this Act, the arbitral tribunal shall terminate the proceedings; or

(b)              the respondent fails to state his defence as required under section 19 (1) of this Act, the arbitral tribunal shall continue the proceedings without treating such failure in itself as an admission of the claimant's allegations; or

(c)               any party fails to appear at a hearing or to produce documentary evidence, the arbitral tribunal may continue the proceedings and make an award.

22. Power of arbitral tribunal to appoint expert

(1) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral tribunal may-

(a)        appoint one or more experts to report to it on a specific issue to be determined by the arbitral tribunal;

(b)        require a party to give to the expert any relevant information or to produce or provide access to any documents, goods or other property for inspection.

(2) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, if a party so requests or if the arbitral tribunal considers it necessary, any expert appointed under subsection (1) of this section shall, after delivering his written or oral report, participate in a hearing where the parties shall have the opportunity of putting questions to him and presenting expert witnesses to testify on their behalf on the points at issue.

(3) The arbitral tribunal shall not decide ex aequo et bono or as amiable compositeur, unless the parties have expressly authorised it to do so.

(4) The arbitral tribunal shall decide in accordance with the terms of the contract and shall take account or the usages or the trade applicable to the transaction.

23. Power of court to order attendance of witness

(1) The Court or a judge may order that a writ of subpoena ad testificandum or of subpoena duces tecum, shall issue to compel the attendance before any arbitral tribunal or a witness wherever he may be within Nigeria.

(2) The Court or a judge may also order that a writ of habeas corpus ad testificandum shall, issue to bring up a prisoner for examination before any arbitral tribunal.

(3) The provisions of any written law relating to the service or execution outside a State of the Federation of any such subpoena or order for the production of a prisoner, issued or made in civil proceedings by the High Court shall, apply in relation to a subpoena or order issued or made under this section.

Making of Award and Termination of Proceedings

24. Decision making by arbitral tribunal

(1) In an arbitral tribunal comprising more than one arbitrator, any decision of the tribunal shall, unless otherwise agreed by the parties, be made by a majority of all its members.

Arbitration and Conciliation Act

(2) In any arbitral tribunal, the presiding arbitrator may, if so authorised by the parties or all the members of the arbitral tribunal, decide questions relating to the procedure to be followed at the arbitral proceedings.

25. Settlement

(1) If, during the arbitral proceedings, the parties settle the dispute, the arbitral tribunal shall terminate the arbitral proceedings, and shall, if requested by the parties and not objected to by the arbitral tribunal, record the settlement in the form of an arbitral award on agreed terms.

(2) An award on agreed terms recorded under subsection (1) of this section shall-

(a)        be in accordance with the provisions of section 26 of this Act and state that it is such an award; and

(b)       have the same status and effect as any other award on the merits of the case.

26. Form and contents of award

(1) Any award made by the arbitral tribunal shall be in writing and signed by the arbitrators.

(2) Where the arbitral tribunal comprises of more than one arbitrator, the signatures of a majority of all the members of the arbitral tribunal shall suffice, if the reason for the absence of any signature is stated.

(3) The arbitral tribunal shall state on the award-

(a) the reasons upon which it is based, unless the parties have agreed that no reasons are to be given or the award is an award on agreed terms under section 25 of this Act;

(b) the date it was made; and

(c) the place of the arbitration as agreed or determined under section 16 (1) of this Act, which place shall be deemed to be the place where the award was made.

(4) A copy of the award, made and signed by the arbitrators in accordance with subsections (1) and (2) of this section, shall be delivered to each party.

27. Termination of proceedings

(1) The arbitral proceedings shall terminate, when the final award is made or when an order of the arbitral tribunal is issued under subsection (2) of this section.

(2) The arbitral tribunal shall, issue an order for the termination of the arbitral proceedings when-

(a)       the claimant withdraws his claim, unless the respondent objects thereto and the arbitral tribunal recognises a legitimate interest on his part in obtaining a final settlement of the dispute; or

(b)       the parties agree on the termination of the arbitral proceedings; or

(c)      the arbitral tribunal finds that continuation of the arbitral proceedings has for any other reason become unnecessary or impossible.

Arbitration and Conciliation Act

(3) Subject to the provisions of sections 28 and 29 (2) of this Act, the mandate of the arbitral tribunal shall cease on termination of the arbitral proceedings.

28. Correction and interpretation of award and additional award

(1) Unless another period has been agreed upon by the parties, a party may, within thirty days of the receipt of an award and with notice to the other party, request the arbitral tribunal-

(a) to correct in the award any errors in computation, any clerical or typographical errors or any errors of a similar nature;

(b) to give an interpretation of a specific point or part of the award.

(2) If the arbitral tribunal considers any request made under subsection (1) of this section to be justified, it shall, within thirty days of receipt of the request, make the correction or give the interpretation, and such correction or interpretation shall form part of the award.

(3) The arbitral tribunal may, on its own volition and within thirty days from the date of the award, correct any error of the type referred to in subsection (1) (a) of this section.

(4) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, a party may within thirty days of receipt of the award, request the arbitral tribunal to make an additional award as to the claims presented in the arbitral proceedings but omitted from the award.

(5) If the arbitral tribunal considers any request made under subsection (4) of this section to be justified, it shall, within sixty days of the receipt of the request, make the additional award.

(6) The arbitral tribunal may, if it considers it necessary, extend the time limit within which it shall make a correction, give an interpretation or make an additional award under subsection (2) or (5) of this section.

(7) The provisions of section 26 of this Act, which relate to the form and contents of an award, shall apply to any correction or interpretation or to an additional award made under this section.

Recourse against Award

29. Application for setting aside an arbitral award

(1) A party who is aggrieved by an arbitral award may within three months-

(a) from the date of the award; or

(b) in a case falling within section 28 of this Act, from the date the request for additional award is disposed of by the arbitral tribunal,

by way of an application for setting aside, request the Court to set aside the award in accordance with subsection (2) of this section.

(2) The Court may set aside an arbitral award, if the party making the application furnishes proof that the award contains decisions on matters which are beyond the scope of the submission to arbitration, so however that, if the decisions on matters submitted to arbitration can be separated from those not submitted, only that part of the award which contains decisions on matters not submitted may be set aside.

(3) The Court before which an application is brought under subsection (1) of this section may, at the request of a party where appropriate, suspend proceedings for such period as it may determine, to afford the arbitral tribunal an opportunity to resume the arbitral proceedings or take such other action to eliminate the grounds for setting aside of
the award.

30. Setting aside of award in case of misconduct by arbitrator, etc.

(1) Where an arbitrator has misconducted himself, or where the arbitral proceedings, or award, has been improperly procured, the Court may on the application of a party set aside the award.

(2) An arbitrator who has misconducted himself may, on the application of any party
be removed by the Court.

Recognition and Enforcement of A wards

31. Recognition and enforcement of awards

(1) An arbitral award shall be recognised as binding, and subject to this section and section 32 of this Act, shall, upon application in writing to the Court, be enforced by the Court.

(2) The party relying on an award or applying for its enforcement shall supply -
(a) the duly authenticated original award or a duly certified copy thereof; and
(b) the original arbitration agreement or a duly certified copy thereof.

(3) An award may, by leave of the Court or a judge, be enforced in the same manner as a judgment or order to the same effect.

32. Refusal of recognition or enforcement of award

Any of the parties to an arbitration agreement may, request the Court to refuse recognition or enforcement of the award.

General

33. Waiver of right to object

A party who knows-

(a) that any provision of this Act from which the parties may not derogate; or

(b) that any requirement under the arbitration agreement,

has not been complied with and yet proceeds with the arbitration without stating his objection to such non-compliance within the time limit provided therefore shall, be deemed to have waived his right to object to the non-compliance.

Arbitration and Conciliation Act

34. Extent of court intervention

A court shall not intervene in any matter governed by this Act, except, where so provided in this Act.

35. Extent of application of this Act to arbitration

This Act shall not affect any other law by virtue of which certain disputes-

(a) may not be submitted to arbitration; or

(b) may be submitted to arbitration only in accordance with the provisions of that or another law.

36. Extension of time

Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, the arbitral tribunal may, if it considers it necessary, extend the time specified for the performance of any act under this Act.

PART II

Conciliation

37. Right to settle dispute by conciliation

Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Act, the parties to any agreement may, seek amicable settlement of any dispute in relation to the agreement by, conciliation under the provisions of this Part of this Act.

38. Request to conciliate

(1) A party who wishes to initiate conciliation shall, send to the other party a written request to conciliation under the provisions of this Part of this Act.

(2) Any request sent under subsection (1) of this section shall, contain a brief statement setting out the subject of the dispute.

39. Commencement of conciliation proceedings

The conciliation proceedings shall, commence on the date the request to conciliate is accepted by the other party.

40. Appointment of conciliators

Where the request to conciliate under section 38 of this Act has been accepted, the parties shall refer the dispute to a conciliation body, consisting of one or three conciliators to be appointed-

(a) in the case of one conciliator, jointly by the parties;

(b) in the case of three conciliators-

(i) one conciliator by each party; and

(ii) the third conciliator jointly by the parties.

Arbitration and Conciliation Act

41. Action by the conciliation body

(1) The conciliation body shall, acquaint itself with the details of the case and procure such other information it may require for the purpose of settling the dispute.

(2) The parties may, appear in person before the conciliation body and may have legal representation.

42. Terms of settlement

(1) After the conciliation body has examined the case and heard the parties, if necessary, it shall submit its terms of settlement to the parties.

(2) If the parties agree to the terms of settlement submitted under subsection (1) of this section, the conciliation body shall draw up and sign a record of settlement.

(3) If the parties do not agree to the terms of settlement submitted under subsection (1) of this section, they may-

(a)        submit the dispute to arbitration in accordance with any agreement between them; or

(b)        take any action in court as they may deem fit.

(4) Nothing done in connection with the conciliation proceedings shall, affect the legal rights of the parties in any submission to arbitration or any action taken under sub-section (3) of this section.

PART III

Additional Provisions relating to International Commercial Arbitration and Conciliation

43. Application of this Part of this Act

The provision of this Part of this Act shall, apply solely to cases relating to international commercial arbitration and conciliation, in addition to the other provisions of this Act.

44. Appointment of sole arbitrator, etc.

(1) If a sole arbitrator is to be appointed, either party may propose to the other the names of one or more persons, one of whom would serve as the sole arbitrator.

(2) If within thirty days after receipt by a party of a proposal made in accordance with subsection (1) of this section, the parties have not reached agreement on the choice of a sole arbitrator, the sole arbitrator shall be appointed by the appointing authority.

(3) The appointing authority shall, at the request of one of the parties, appoint the sole arbitrator as promptly as possible; and in making the appointment, the appointing authority shall use the following list-procedure, unless both parties agree that the list-procedure should not be used or unless the appointing authority determines in its discretion that the use of the list-procedure is not appropriate for the case, that is-

(a)        at the request of one of the parties, the appointing authority shall communicate to both parties an identical list containing at least three names;

(b)        within fifteen days after the receipt of the said list, each party may return the list to the appointing authority, after having deleted the name or names to which he objects and numbered the remaining names on the list in the order of his preference;

(c)        after the expiration of the above period of time, the appointing authority shall appoint the sole arbitrator from among the names approved on the lists returned to it and in accordance with the order of preference indicated by the parties.

(4) In making the appointment, the appointing authority shall have regard to such considerations as are likely to secure the appointment of an independent and impartial arbitrator and shall take into account as well, the advisability of appointing an arbitrator of a nationality other than the nationalities of the parties.

(5)  If three arbitrators are to be appointed, each party shall appoint one arbitrator; and the two arbitrators thus appointed shall choose the third arbitrator who shall act as the presiding arbitrator of the arbitral tribunal.

(6) If within thirty days after the receipt of a party's notification of the appointment of an arbitrator, the other party has not notified the first party of the arbitrator he has appointed, the first party may request the appointing authority previously designated by the parties to appoint the second arbitrator.

(7) If within thirty days after the appointment of the second arbitrator, the two arbitrators have not agreed on the choice of the presiding arbitrator, the presiding arbitrator shall be appointed by the appointing authority, in the same way as a sole arbitrator would be appointed under subsections (1) to (4) of this section.

(8) When the appointing authority is requested to appoint an arbitrator pursuant to the provisions of this section, the party which makes the request shall, send to the appointing authority a copy of the notice of arbitration, a copy of the contract out of or in relation to which the dispute has arisen and a copy of the arbitration agreement if it is not contained in the contract, and the appointing authority may require from either party such information as it deems necessary to fulfil its functions under this Act.

(9) Where the names of one or more persons are proposed for appointment as arbitrators, their full names, addresses and nationalities shall be indicated, together with a description of their qualifications.

(10) Except as otherwise agreed by the parties, no person shall be disqualified from being appointed as an arbitrator by reason of his nationality.

45. Challenge of arbitrators

(1) A prospective arbitrator shall disclose to those who approach him in connection with his possible appointment, any circumstance likely to give rise to justifiable doubts as to his impartiality or independence.

(2) An arbitrator, once appointed or chosen, shall disclose such circumstances as referred to in subsection (1) of this section to the parties, unless they have already been informed by him of those circumstances.

Arbitration and Conciliation Act

(3) Any arbitrator may be challenged, if circumstances exist that give rise to justifiable doubts as to the arbitrator's impartiality or independence.

(4) A party may challenge the arbitrator appointed by him, only for reasons of which he becomes aware after the appointment has been made.

(5) A party who intends to challenge an arbitrator shall, send notice of his challenge within fifteen days after the appointment of the challenged arbitrator has been notified to the challenging party or within fifteen days after the circumstances mentioned in subsections (1) to (4) of this section became known to that party.

(6) The challenge shall be notified to the other party, to the arbitrator who is challenged and to the other members of the arbitral tribunal and the notification shall be in writing and shall state the reason for the challenge.

(7) When an arbitrator has been challenged by one party, the other party may agree to the challenge and the challenged arbitrator may also, after the challenge, withdraw from his office; but the fact that the other party agrees to the challenge or that the arbitrator withdraws does not imply acceptance of the validity of the grounds for the challenge.

(8) Where the other party agrees to the challenge or the challenged arbitrator withdraws, the procedure provided in section 44 of this Act shall, be used in full for the appointment of the substitute arbitrator, even if during the process of appointing the challenged arbitrator, a party had failed to exercise his right to appoint or to participate in the appointment.

(9) If the other party does not agree to the challenge and the challenged arbitrator does not withdraw, the decision on the challenge shall be made-

(a)   when the initial appointment was made by an appointing authority, by that authority;

(b) when the initial appointment was not made by an appointing authority, but an appointing authority has been previously designated, by that authority;

(c)  in all other cases, by the appointing authority to be designated in accordance with the procedure for designating an appointing authority as provided for in section 44 of this Act.

(10) If the appointing authority sustains the challenge, a substitute arbitrator shall be appointed or chosen pursuant to the procedure applicable to the appointment or choice of an arbitrator as provided in section 44 of this Act and in this section, except that, when this procedure would call for the designation of an appointing authority, the appointment of the arbitrator shall be made by the appointing authority which decided on the challenge.

46. Replacement of arbitrators

(1) Where an arbitrator dies or resigns during the course of the arbitral proceedings, a substitute arbitrator shall be appointed or chosen pursuant to the procedure provided for in sections 44 and 45 of this Act that was applicable to the appointment or choice of the arbitrator being replaced.

(2) Where an arbitrator fails to act or in the event of the de jure or de facto impossibility of his performing his functions, the procedure in respect of the challenge and replacement of an arbitrator as provided in sections 44 and 45 of this Act shall apply.

Making of Awards and Termination of Proceedings

47. Rules applicable to substance of dispute

(1) The arbitral tribunal shall decide the dispute in accordance with the rules in force in the country whose laws the parties have chosen as applicable to the substance of the dispute.

(2) Any designation of the law or legal system of a country shall, unless otherwise expressed, be construed as directly referring to the substantive law of that country and not to its conflict of laws rules.

(3) Where the law of the country to be applied is not determined by the parties, the arbitral tribunals shall apply the law determined by the conflict of laws rules which it considers applicable.

(4) The arbitral tribunal shall not decide ex aequo et bono or as amiable compositeur, unless the parties have expressly authorised it to do so.

(5) In all cases, the arbitral tribunal shall decide in accordance with the terms of the contract and shall take account of the usages of the trade applicable to the transaction.

(6) If the arbitration law of the country where the award is made requires that the award be filed or registered by the arbitral tribunal, the arbitral tribunal shall comply with this requirement within the period of time required by law.

48. Setting aside of arbitral award

The Court may set aside an arbitral award-

(a)        if the party making the application furnishes proof-

(i) that a party to the arbitration agreement was under some incapacity;

(ii) that the arbitration agreement is not valid under the law which the parties have indicated should be applied, or failing such indication, that the arbitration agreement is not valid under the laws of Nigeria;

(iii)      that he was not given proper notice of the appointment of an arbitrator or of the arbitral proceedings or was otherwise not able to present his case;

(iv)    that the award deals with a dispute not contemplated by or not falling within the terms of the submission to arbitration; or

(v)     that the award contains decisions on matters which are beyond the scope of the submission to arbitration, so however that if the decisions on matters submitted to arbitration can be separated from those not submitted, only that part of the award which contains decisions on matters not submitted to arbitration may be set aside; or

(vi)   that the composition of the arbitral tribunal, or the arbitral procedure, was not in accordance with the agreement of the parties, unless such agreement was in conflict with a provision of this Act from which the parties cannot derogate; or

(vii)     where there is no agreement between the parties under subparagraph (vi) of this paragraph, that the composition of the arbitral tribunal or the arbitral procedure was not in accordance with this Act; or

(b)        if the Court finds-

(i)     that the subject matter of the dispute is not capable of settlement by arbitration under the laws of Nigeria; or

(ii)   that the award is against public policy of Nigeria.

49. Costs

(l) The arbitral tribunal shall fix costs of arbitration in its award and the term "costs" includes only-

(a) the fees of the arbitral tribunal to be stated separately as to each arbitrator and to be fixed by the tribunal itself;

(b) the travel and other expenses incurred by the arbitrators;

(c) the cost of expert advice and of other assistance required by the arbitral tribunal;

(d) the travel and other expenses of witnesses to the extent that such expenses are approved by the arbitral tribunal;

(e) the costs for legal representation and assistance of the successful party if such costs were claimed during the arbitral proceedings, and only to the extent that the arbitral tribunal determines that the amount of such costs is reasonable.

(2) The fees of the arbitral tribunal shall be reasonable in amount, taking into account the amount in dispute, the complexity of the subject-matter, the time spent by the arbitrators and any other relevant circumstances of the case.

(3) If an appointing authority has been agreed upon by the parties or designated by the Secretary-General of the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague, and if that authority has issued a schedule of fees for arbitrators in international cases which it administers, the arbitral tribunal in fixing its fees shall take that schedule of fees into ac-
count to the extent that, it considers appropriate in the circumstances of the case.

(4) If such appointing authority has not issued a schedule of fees for arbitrators in international cases, any party may, at any time request the appointing authority to furnish a statement setting forth the basis for establishing fees, which is customarily followed in international cases in which the authority appoints arbitrators; and if the appointing authority consents to provide such a statement, the arbitral tribunal in fixing its fees shall,
take such information into account, to the extent that it considers appropriate in the circumstances of the case.

(5) In cases referred to in subsections (3) and (4) of this section, when a party so requests that the appointing authority consents to perform the function, the arbitral tribunal shall fix its fees only after consultation with the appointing authority, which may make any comment it deems appropriate to the arbitral tribunal concerning the fees.

50. Deposit of costs

(1) The arbitral tribunal, on its establishment, may request each party to deposit an equal amount as an advance for the costs referred to in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of section 49 (1) of this Act.

(2) During the course of the arbitral proceedings, the arbitral tribunal may request supplementary deposits from the parties.

(3) If an appointing authority has been agreed upon by the parties or designated by the Secretary-General of the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague, and when a party so requests and the appointing authority consents to perform the function, the arbitral tribunal shall, fix the amount of any deposits or supplementary deposits only after
consultation with the appointing authority which may make any comments to the arbitral tribunal which it deems appropriate concerning the amount of such deposits and supplementary deposits.

(4) If the required deposits are not paid in full within thirty days after the receipt of the requests, the arbitral tribunal shall so inform the parties in order that one or other of them may make the required payment; and if such payment is not made, the arbitral tribunal may order the suspension or termination of the arbitral proceedings.

(5) After the award has been made, the arbitral tribunal shall render an account to the parties of the deposits received and return any unexpended balance to the parties.

Recognition and Enforcement of Awards

51. Recognition and enforcement of awards

(1) An arbitral award shall, irrespective of the country in which it is made, be recognised as binding and subject to this section and section 32 of this Act, shall, upon application in writing to the Court, be enforced by the Court.

(2) The party relying on an award or applying for its enforcement shall supply-

(a) the duly authenticated original award or a duly certified copy thereof;

(b) the original arbitration agreement or a duly certified copy thereof; and

(c) where the award or arbitration agreement is not made in the English language, a duly certified translation thereof into the English language.

52. Grounds for refusing recognition or enforcement

(1) Any of the parties to an arbitration agreement may, request the Court to refuse recognition or enforcement of the award.

(2) The Court where recognition or enforcement of an award is sought or where application for refusal of recognition or enforcement thereof is brought may, irrespective of the country in which the award is made, refuse to recognise or enforce an award-

(a) if the party against whom it is invoked furnishes the Court proof -

(i) that a party to the arbitration agreement was under some incapacity; or

(ii) that the arbitration agreement is not valid under the law which the parties have indicated should be

applied, or failing such indication, that the arbitration agreement is not valid under the law of the

country where the award was made; or

(iii) that he was not given proper notice of the appointment of an arbitrator or of the arbitral proceedings or was otherwise not able to present his case; or

(iv) that the award deals with a dispute not contemplated by or not falling within the terms of the submission to arbitration; or

(v) that the award contains decisions on matters which are beyond the scope of the submission to arbitration, so however that, if the decisions on matters submitted to arbitration can be separated from those not submitted, only that part of the award which contains decisions on matters submitted to arbitration may be recognised and enforced; or

(vi) that the composition of the arbitral tribunal, or the arbitral procedure, was not in accordance with the agreement of the parties; or

(vii)   where there is no agreement between the parties under sub-paragraph (vi) of this paragraph, that the composition of the arbitral tribunal, or the arbitral procedure, was not in accordance with the law of the country where the arbitration took place; or

(viii) that the award has not yet become binding on the parties or has been set aside or suspended by a court of the country in which, or under the law of which, the award was made; or

(b) if the Court finds -

(i)     that the subject-matter of the dispute is not capable of settlement by arbitration under the laws of Nigeria; or

(ii)     that the recognition or enforcement of the award is against public policy of Nigeria.

(3) Where an application for the recognition or enforcement of an award has been made to a court referred to in subsection (2) (a) (viii) of this section, the Court before which the recognition or enforcement is sought may, if it considers it proper, postpone its decision and may on the application of the party claiming recognition or enforcement of the award, order the other party to provide appropriate security.

Application of Arbitration Rules set out in the First Schedule

53. Application of Arbitration Rules set out in the First Schedule

Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, the parties to an international commercial agreement may, agree in writing that disputes in relation to the agreement shall, be referred to arbitration in accordance with the Arbitration Rules set out in the First Schedule to this Act, or the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules or any other international arbitration rules acceptable to the parties.

[First Schedule.]

Application of Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards

54. Application of the Convention on Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards, etc.

(1I) Without prejudice to sections 51 and 52 of this Act, where the recognition and enforcement of any award arising out of an international commercial arbitration are sought, the Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Awards (hereinafter referred to as "the Convention") set out in the Second Schedule to this Act shall apply to any award made in Nigeria or in any contracting State-

[Second Schedule.]

(a) provided that, such contracting State has reciprocal legislation recognising the enforcement of arbitral awards made in Nigeria in accordance with the provisions of the Convention;

(b) that the Convention shall apply only to differences arising out of a legal relationship which is contractual.

(2) In this Part of this Act, "the appointing authority" means the Secretary-General of the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague.

Conciliation

55. Conciliation Rules

Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, the parties to an international commercial agreement may agree in writing that disputes in relation to the agreement shall be settled by conciliation under the Conciliation Rules set out in the Third Schedule to this Act.

[Third Schedule.]

PART IV

Miscellaneous

56. Receipt of written communication

(1) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, any communication sent under or pursuant to this Act shall be deemed to have been received-

(a) when it is delivered to the addressee personally or when it is delivered to his place of business, habitual residence or mailing address; or

(b) where a communication cannot be delivered under paragraph (a) of this sub-section, when it is sent to the addressee's last known place of business, habitual residence or mailing address by registered letter or any other means which provides a record of the attempt to deliver it.

(2) A communication shall be deemed to have been received on the day it is delivered under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The provisions of this section shall not apply to communications in court proceedings.

Arbitration and Conciliation Act

57. Interpretation

(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"arbitral tribunal" means a sole arbitrator or a panel of arbitrators;

"arbitration" means a commercial arbitration whether or not administered by a permanent arbitral institution;

"commercial" means all relationships of a commercial nature, including any trade transaction for the supply or exchange of goods or services, distribution agreement, commercial representation or agency, factoring, leasing, construction works, consulting, engineering, licensing, investment, financing, banking, insurance, exploitation agreement or concession, joint venture and other forms of industrial or business co-operation, carriage of goods or passengers by air, sea, rail or road;

"court" means the High Court of a State, the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja or the Federal High Court;

"judge" means a judge of the High Court of a State, the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja or the Federal High Court;

"party" means a party to the arbitration agreement or to conciliation or any person claiming through or under him and "parties" shall be construed accordingly.

(2) An arbitration is international if-

(a)       the parties to an arbitration agreement have, at the time of the conclusion of the agreement, their places of business in different countries; or

(b)      one of the following places is situated outside the country in which the parties have their places of business-

(i)     the place of arbitration if such place is determined in, or pursuant to the arbitration agreement;

(ii)     any place where a substantial part of the obligation of the commercial relationship is to be performed or the place with which the subject-matter of the dispute is most closely connected; or

(c)        the parties have expressly agreed that the subject-matter of the arbitration agreement relates to more than one country; or

(d)        the parties, despite the nature of the contract, expressly agree that any dispute arising from the commercial transaction shall be treated as an international arbitration.

(3) For the purposes of subsection (2) of this section-

(a)        if a party has more than one place of business, the place of business shall be that which has the closest relationship to the arbitration agreement;

(b)        if a party does not have a place of business, reference shall be made to his habitual residence.

(4) Where a provision of this Act, other than section 47 of this Act, leaves the parties free to determine a certain issue, such freedom includes the right of the parties to authorise a third party, including an institution, to make that determination.

(5) Where a provision of this Act-

(a) refers to the fact that parties have agreed or that they may agree; or

(b) in any other way refers to an agreement of the parties,

such agreement includes any arbitration rules referred to in the agreement.

(6) Where a provision of this Act, other than section 21 (a) or 27 (2) (a) refers to a claim, such claim includes a counterclaim, and where it refers to a defence, such defence includes a defence to such counterclaim.

58. Short title and application

This Act may be cited as the Arbitration and Conciliation Act and shall apply throughout the Federation.