1. Establishment of the Chartered Institute of Administration

(1) There is hereby established a body to be known as the Chartered Institute of Administration

(in this Act referred to as "the Institute") which shall have the objective of-

(a) promoting the techniques of management administration; and

(b) the art and science of administration.

(2) The Institute shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in its corporate name.

(3) Subject to this Act, the Institute shall have the control and supervision of the profession of administration (in this Act referred to as "the profession").

2. Functions of the Institute

(1) Without prejudice to section 1 of this Act, it shall be the duty of the Institute to-

(a) determine what standards of knowledge and skill are to be attained by persons seeking to become members of the profession and improving those standards from time to time as circumstances may permit;

(b) secure, in accordance with the provisions of this Act, the establishment and maintenance of a register of fellows, members, associates, honorary fellows and retired members of the profession and the publication, from time to time, of lists of those persons;

(c) encourage, advance, disseminate knowledge, education, practical training, and research into the profession;

(d) conduct examinations in the profession and award certificates or diplomas to successful candidates as appropriate; and for such purposes the Institute shall prescribe fees to be paid in respect thereof; and

(e) perform through the Council established by section 5 of this Act the functions conferred on it by this Act.

(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, persons admitted to membership of the Institute shall be registered as members of the profession in the category of-

(i) fellows; or

(ii) members; or

(iii) associates; or

(iv) honorary members;

(v) honorary fellows; and

(vi) retired members.

(3) A person accorded by the Council established under this Act status as a Chartered Member of the Institute of Administration shall be entitled to the use of that name and shall be registered as-

(a) a fellow if-

(i) he is least thirty years of age and has had not less than fifteen years' relevant professional working experience;

(ii) he is the holder of a certificate of the examination of the Institute and approved professional qualification;

(iii) he is otherwise considered by the Council to be a fit and proper person to be so enrolled;

(b) a member if-

(i) he is at least twenty five years of age and has had not less than ten years' relevant professional working experience;

(ii) he is the holder of a certificate of the examination of the Institute and approved academic professional qualification; and

(iii) he is otherwise considered by the Council to be a fit and proper person to be so registered;

(c) an associate if-

(i) he is at least twenty-one years of age and has had not less than six years' relevant professional working experience;

(ii) he is otherwise considered by the Council to be a fit and proper person to be so registered.

(4) Honorary fellows and honorary members of the Institute shall be persons admitted as such by resolution of the Council.

(5) A retired member shall be a fellow, member or an associate who, having attained the age of sixty years and retired from active professional practice, has been admitted as such by a resolution of the Council.

(6) The designatory letters of the-

(a) fellows of the Chartered Institute of Administration shall be "FCLA";

(b) members of the Chartered Institute of Administration shall be "MCLA";

(c) associate of the Chartered Institute of Administration shall be "ACLA".

3. Election of President and Vice-President of the Institute

(1) There shall be a President and a Vice-President of the Institute, who shall be fellows of the Institute, to be elected by the Council and shall hold office each for a term of three years from the date of election.

(2) The President shall be the chairman at meetings of the Institute, so however that, in the event of the death, incapacity or inability, for any reason of the President, the Vice-President shall act in his stead for the unexpired portion of the term of the office, or as the case may require, and references in this Act to the President shall be construed accordingly.

(3) The President and the Vice-president shall respectively be chairman and vice-chairman of the Council established by section 4 of this Act.

(4) If the President or Vice-President ceases to be a member of the Institute he shall ipso facto cease to hold any of the offices designated under this section.

4. Governing Council

(1) There shall be, as the governing body of the Institute, a Council charged with responsibility for the administration and general management of the Institute.

(2) The Council shall consist of the following members, being fellows, members, and associate members appointed, or elected as the case may be, as follows, that is-

(a) the President of the Institute, who shall be the chairman;

(b) the Vice-President of the Institute, who shall be the vice-chairman;

(c) the Director, National Board for Technical Education;

(d) four persons to be appointed by the Minister;

(e) fifteen persons to be elected by the Institute; and

(f) past Presidents of the Institute who shall be entitled to serve on the Council for a maximum period of three years from the expiration of their terms of office as President.

(3) The provisions of the First Schedule to this Act shall have effect with respect to the qualifications and tenure of office of members of the Council and the other matters therein mentioned.

[First Schedule.]

(4) Regulations made by the Council with the approval of the Minister may provide for an increase or reduction in the membership of the Council and may make such amendments of subsection (2) of this section and the First Schedule to this Act as the Minister considers expedient for the purposes of or in consequence of the increase or reduction.

PART II

Financial provisions

5. Fund of the Council

(1) There shall be established for the Institute a fund which shall be managed and controlled by the Council.

(2) There shall be paid and credited into the fund established pursuant to subsection (1) of this section-

(a) all fees and other moneys payable to the Council in pursuance of this Act;

(b) such moneys as may be provided by the Federal Government to the Institute by way of grant or loan or otherwise; and

[1968 No. 51.]

(c) such moneys as are held by the Institute of Executive Secretaries and Administrators of Nigeria incorporated under the Companies Act 1968 (in this Act referred to as "the Incorporated Institute") on its ceasing to exist as provided for in this Act.

(3) There shall be paid out of the fund established pursuant to subsection (1) of this section-

(a) all expenditure incurred by the Council in the discharge of its functions under this Act;

(b) the remuneration and allowances of the Registrar and other employees of the Institute; and

(c) such reasonable travelling and subsistence allowances of members of the Council in respect of the time spent on the duties of the Institute as the Council may, with the approval of the Minister, determine.

(4) The Council may invest moneys in the fund in any security created or issued by or on behalf of the Federal Government or in any other securities in Nigeria approved by the Council.

(5) The Council may, from time to time, borrow money for the purposes of the Institute and any interest payable on moneys so borrowed shall be paid out of the fund.

(6) The Council shall keep proper accounts on behalf of the Institute in respect of each year and proper records in relation to those accounts; and the Council shall cause the accounts to be audited by an auditor and when audited the accounts shall be submitted to the members of the Institute for approval by them at a meeting of the Institute.

(7) The auditor, appointed for the purposes of this section, shall not be a member of the Council.

(8) The Council shall prepare and submit to the Minister not later than twelve months after its establishment and once in each year thereafter, a report on the activities of the Institute during the least preceding year and shall include in the report a copy of the audited accounts of the Institute for that year and of the auditor's report thereon.

PART III

Transfer to Institute of certain assets and liabilities

6. Transfer to the Institute of certain assets and liabilities

(1) On the commencement of this Act-

(a) all assets and liabilities held or incurred immediately before that day by or on behalf of the Incorporated Institute shall, by virtue of this Act and without any further assurance, vest in the Institute and be held by it for the purposes of the Institute;

(b) the Incorporated Institute shall cease to exist; and

(c) subject to subsection (2) of this section, any act or thing made or done by the Incorporated Institute shall be deemed to have been made or done by the Institute.

(2) The provisions of the Second Schedule to this Act shall have effect with respect to matters arising from the transfer by this section to the Institute of the property of the Incorporated Institute and with respect to the other matters mentioned therein.

[Second Schedule.]

PART IV

The Registrar and the register

7. Registrar and other staff of the Institute

(1) It shall be the duty of the Council to appoint a fit and proper person, who shall be a member of the Institute with not less than ten years' post-call experience, to be the Registrar for the purposes of this Act, and such other person as the Institute may, from time to time, think necessary.

(2) The Registrar shall, in addition to his other functions under this Act, be the Secretary to the Council and shall on the instructions of the President of the Councilor of any committee thereof, convene meetings of the Council or of any committee thereof and keep minutes of the proceedings at all such meetings as the case may be.

(3) The Council may, whenever the Registrar is absent or for any other reason unable to discharge the functions of his office, appoint an acting Registrar who shall have the same qualifications as in subsection (1) of this section to discharge those functions.

(4) The Registrar and other staff of the Institute shall hold office on such conditions as the Council may determine.

8. Registration of members

(1) It shall be the duty of the Registrar to prepare and maintain, in accordance with the rules made by the Council, a register of names, addresses and approved qualification and of such other particulars as may be specified in the rules, of all persons who are entitled in accordance with the provisions of this Act to be registered as members of the profession in the category of fellows, members, associates, honorary members, honorary fellows and retired members and, who, in the manner prescribed by such rules, apply to be so registered.

(2) The register shall consist of six parts of which-

(a) the first part shall be in respect of fellows;

(b) the second part shall be in respect of members;

(c) the third part shall be in respect of associate members;

(d) the fourth part shall be in respect of honorary members;

(e) the fifth part shall be in respect of honorary fellows; and

(f) the sixth part shall be in respect of retired members;

(3) Subject to the following provisions of this section, the Council may make rules with respect to the form and keeping of the register and the making of entries therein and in particular-

(a) regulating the making of applications for registration, and providing for the evidence to be produced in support of such applications;

(b) providing for the notification to the Registrar, by the person to whom any registered particulars relate, of any change in those particulars;

(c) specifying the fees, including any annual subscription, to be paid to the Institute in respect of the entry of names in the register, and authorising the Registrar to refuse to enter a name on the register until any fees specified for the entry have been paid;

(d) specifying anything failing to be specified under the foregoing provisions of this section.

(4) Any rules made for the purposes of paragraph (c) of subsection (3) of this section, shall not come into force until they are confirmed at a special meeting of the Institute.

(5) It shall be the duty of the Registrar-

(a) to correct, in accordance with the directions of the Council, any entry in the register which the Council directs him to correct as being in the opinion of the Council an entry which was incorrectly made;

(b) to make, from time to time, any necessary alteration to the registered particulars of registered persons;

(c) to record the names of members of the Institute who are in default for more than six months in the payment of annual subscriptions, and to take such action in relation thereto (including removal of the names of defaulters from the register) as the Council may direct or require.

(6) If the Registrar-

(a) sends by post to any registered person a registered letter addressed to him at his address on the register enquiring whether the registered particulars relating to him are correct and receives no reply to the letter within the period of six months from the date of posting it; and

(b) upon the expiration of that period sends in the like manner to the person in question a second similar letter and receives no reply to that letter within three months from the date of posting it,

the Registrar may remove the particulars relating to the person in question from the register: so however that the Council may for any reason which seems to it sufficient direct the Registrar to restore to the appropriate part of the register any particulars removed therefrom under this subsection.

9. Publication of register and lists of corrections

(1) It shall be the duty of the Registrar-

(a) to cause the register to be printed, published and put out on sale to members of the public not later than two years from the coming into force of this Act;

(b) thereafter in each year, after that in which a register is first published under paragraph (a) of this subsection, to cause to be printed, published and put on sale as aforesaid, either a corrected edition of the register or a list of corrections made to the register since it was last printed;

(c) to cause a print of each edition of the register and of each list of corrections to be deposited at the principal office of the Institute; and

(d) to keep the register and lists so deposited available at all reasonable times for inspection by members of the public.

(2) A document purporting to be a print of an edition of the register published under this section by authority of the Registrar or documents purporting to be prints of an edition of the register so published and of the list of corrections to that edition so published, shall (without prejudice to any other mode of proof) be admissible in any proceedings as evidence that any person specified in the document, or documents read together, as being registered, was so registered at the date of the edition or of the list of corrections, as the case may be, and that any person not so specified was not so registered.

(3) Where, in accordance with subsection (2) of this section, a person is in any proceedings shown to have been or not to have been registered at a particular date, he shall, unless the contrary is proved, be taken for the purposes of those proceedings as having at all material times thereafter continued to be or not to be so registered.

PART V

Registration

10. Registration of chartered members of the profession

(1) Subject to section 11 of this Act and to rules made under section 8 of this Act, a person shall be entitled to be registered as a "member" of the profession if-

(a) he passes the qualifying examination for registration recognised or conducted by the Council under this Act and completes the practical training prescribed; or

(b) he holds a qualification granted and for the time being accepted by the Institute and satisfies the Council that he has sufficient practical experience as a member of the profession.

(2) An applicant for registration under this Act shall, in addition to evidence of qualification,

satisfy the Council that-

(a) he is of good character;

(b) he had attained the age of 21 years; and

(c) he has not been convicted in Nigeria or elsewhere of an offence involving fraud or dishonesty.

(3) The Council may, in its sole discretion, provisionally accept a qualification produced in respect of an application for registration under this section, or direct that the application be renewed within such period as may be specified in the direction.

(4) Any entry directed to be made in the register under subsection (3) of this section, shall show that the registration is provisional and no entry so made shall be converted to full registration without the consent of the Council, signified in writing in that behalf.

(5) The Council shall, from time to time, publish in the Federal Gazette particulars of qualifications for the time being acceptable for registration by the Institute.

11.  Approval of qualifications, etc.

(1) The Council may approve any institution for the purposes of this Act and may for those purposes approve-

(a) any course of training at any approved institution which is intended for persons seeking to become or are already administrators and which the Council considers is designed to confer on persons completing it sufficient knowledge and skill for admission into the Institute;

(b) any qualification which, as a result of an examination taken in conjunction with a course of training approved by the Council under this section, is granted to candidates reaching a standard at the examination, indicating in the opinion of the Council that the candidates have sufficient knowledge and skill for the practice of the profession.

(2) The Council may, if it thinks fit, withdraw any approval given under this section in respect of any course, qualification or institution but before withdrawing such an approval the Council shall-

(a) give notice that it proposes to do so to persons in Nigeria appearing to the Council to be persons by whom the course is conducted or the qualification is granted or the institution is controlled, as the case may be;

(b) afford each such person an opportunity of making to the Council representations with regard to the proposal; and

(c) take into consideration any representation made as respects the proposal in pursuance of paragraph (b) of this subsection.

(3) As respects any period during which the approval of the Council under this section for a course, qualification or institution is withdrawn, the course, qualification or institution shall not be treated as approved under this section; but the withdrawal of such an approval shall not prejudice the registration or eligibility for registration of any person who, by virtue of the approval, was registered or eligible for registration immediately before the approval was withdrawn.

(4) The giving or withdrawal of an approval under this section shall have effect from such date, either before or after the execution of the instrument signifying the giving or withdrawal of the approval, as the Council may specify in the instrument and the Council shall-

(a) as soon as may be, publish a copy of every such instrument in the Federal Gazette; and

(b) not later than seven days before its publication, send a copy of the instrument to the Minister.

12. Supervision of instruction, etc.

(1) It shall be the duty of the members of the Council to keep themselves informed of the nature of-

(a) the instructions given at approved institutions to persons attending approved courses of training; and

(b) the examination as a result of which approved qualifications are granted,

and for the purposes of performing that duty the Council may appoint, either from among its own members or otherwise, persons to visit approved institutions or observe such examinations.

(2) It shall be the duty of the person appointed under subsection (1) of this section to report to the Council on-

(a) the sufficiency or otherwise of the instructions given to persons attending approved courses of training at institutions visited by him;

(b) the adequacy or otherwise of the examinations conducted at any institution in-spected by him; and

(c) any other matters relating to the institutions or examinations on which the Council may, either generally or in a particular case, request him to report,

but no person shall interfere with the giving of any instruction or the holding of any examination.

(3) On receiving a report made in pursuance of this section, the Council may, if it thinks fit and shall, if so required by the Institution, send a copy of the report to the person appearing to the Council to be in charge of the institution or responsible for the examinations to which the report relates, requesting that person to make observations on the report to the Council within such period as may be specified in the request, not being less than one month beginning with the date of the request.

13.  Supervision of examination, etc.

(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 12 of this Act, it shall be the duty of the National Board for Technical Education (in this Act referred to as "the Board") to supervise the Institute's examinations and for the purpose of performing that duty, the Board may appoint its official to review the Institute's examination question papers and student's answer scripts before the examination is released.

(2) The Director of the Board shall be a joint signatory to a certificate awarded by the Institute.

14.  Power to grant diplomas, etc.

The Council may arrange for the grant of diploma certificates and awards and for the participation in any scheme for the grant thereof jointly with other professional bodies.

PART VI

Professional discipline

15. Establishment of Disciplinary Tribunal and Investigating Panel

(1) There shall be a Tribunal to be known as the Chartered Institute of Administration Disciplinary Tribunal (in this Act referred to as "the Tribunal"), which shall be charged with the duty of considering and determining any case referred to it by the Investigating Panel established under subsection (3) of this section, and any other case of which the Tribunal has cognisance under the following provisions of this Act.

(2) The Tribunal shall consist of the chairman of the Council and six other members of the Council appointed by the Council.

(3) There shall be a body, to be known as the Chartered Institute of Administration Investigating Panel (in this Act referred to as "the Panel") which shall be charged with the duty of-

(a) conducting a preliminary investigation into any case where it is alleged that a member of the profession has misbehaved in his capacity as an administrator or should for any other reason be the subject of proceedings before the Tribunal; and

(b) deciding whether the case should be referred to the Tribunal.

(4) The Panel shall be appointed by the Council and shall consist of four members of the Council and one member who is not a member of the Council.

(5) The provisions of the Third Schedule to this Act shall, so far as they are applicable to the Tribunal and Panel respectively, have effect with respect to those bodies.

[Third Schedule.]

(6) The Council may make rules not inconsistent with this Act as to acts which constitute professional misconduct.

16. Penalties for unprofessional conduct, etc.

(1) Where-

(a) a person registered under this Act is adjudged by the Tribunal to be guilty of infamous conduct in any professional respect; or

(b) a person registered under this Act is convicted in Nigeria or elsewhere by any court or Tribunal having power to award punishment for an offence (whether or not such offence is punishable with imprisonment) which in the opinion of the Tribunal is incompatible with the status of a member of the profession; or

(c) the Tribunal is satisfied that the name of any person has been fraudulently registered,

the Tribunal may, if it thinks fit, give a direction reprimanding that person or ordering the Registrar to strike his name off the relevant part of the register.

(2) The Tribunal may, if it thinks fit, defer or further defer its decision as to the giving of a direction under subsection (1) of this section until a subsequent meeting of the Tribunal.

(3) No decision of the Tribunal shall be deferred under subsection (2) of this section for periods exceeding one year in the aggregate.

(4) As far as possible no person shall be a member of the Tribunal for the purposes of reaching a decision which has been deferred or further deferred, unless he was present as a member of the Tribunal when the decision was deferred.

(5) For the purposes of subsection (1) (b) of this section, a person shall not be treated as convicted as therein mentioned unless the conviction stands at a time when no appeal or further appeal is pending or may (without extension of time) be brought in connection with the conviction.

(6) When the Tribunal gives a direction under subsection (1) of this section, the Tribunal shall cause notice of the direction to be served on the person to whom it relates.

(7) The person to whom such a direction relates may, at any time within twenty-eight days from the date of service on him of the notice of direction, appeal against the direction to the Federal High Court and the Tribunal may appear as respondent to the appeal and for the purpose of enabling directions to be given as to the costs of the appeal and of proceedings before the Federal High Court, the Tribunal shall be deemed to be a party thereto whether or not it appears on the hearing of the appeal.

(8) A direction of the Tribunal given under subsection (1) of this section shall take effect where-

(a) no appeal under this section is brought against the direction within the time limited for such an appeal, on the expiration of that time; or

(b) such an appeal is brought and is withdrawn or struck out for want of prosecution, on the withdrawal or striking out of the appeal;

(c) such an appeal is brought and is not withdrawn or struck out as aforesaid, if and when the appeal is dismissed,

and shall not take effect except in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this subsection.

(9) A person whose name is removed from the register in pursuance of a direction of the Tribunal under this section, shall not be entitled to be registered again except in pursuance of a direction in that behalf given by the Tribunal on the application of that person.

(10) A direction under this section for the removal of a person's name from the register, may prohibit an application under subsection (9) of this section by that person until the expiration of such period from the date of the direction (and where he has duly made such an application, from the date of his last application) or as may be specified in the direction.

PART VII

Miscellaneous and general

17. Application of Act to certain persons

(1) Any person not being a member of the Incorporated Institute who, but for this Act, would have been qualified to apply for and obtain membership of the Incorporated Institute may, within the period of three months from the commencement of this Act, apply for membership of the Institute in such a manner as may be prescribed by the Council.

(2) Where an application under subsection (1) of this section is approved by the Council, the applicant shall be registered, as the case may be, according to his qualification.

18. When persons are deemed to practise as chartered members of the profession

(1) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, a person shall be deemed to practise as a chartered member of the profession if, in consideration of remuneration received or to be received, and whether by himself or in partnership with any person he-

(a) engages himself in the practice of the profession or holds himself out to the public as a member of the profession; or

(b) renders any other service or assistance in or about matters of principle or detail relating to the profession;

(c) renders any other service which may by regulations made by the Council, with the approval of the Minister, be designated as service constituting practice as a chartered member of the profession.

(2) Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to apply to persons who, while in the employment of any government, are required under the terms or in the course of such employment, to perform the duties or any of the duties of the profession.

19. Rules as to articles, etc.

(1) The Council may make rules for-

(a) the training with registered members of the profession of suitable persons in administrative methods; and

(b) the supervision and regulation of the engagement, training and transfer of such person

(2) The Council may also make rules-

(a) prescribing the amount and date for payment of the annual subscription and for such purpose, different amounts may be prescribed by the rules according to whether the member of the Institute, is a fellow, member, associate honorary member, honorary fellow or retired member;

(b) prescribing the form of license to practice to be issued annually or, if the Council thinks fit, by endorsement on an existing license;

(c) restricting the right to practise as a chartered member of the profession in default of payment of the amount of the annual subscription where the default continues for longer than such period as may be prescribed by the rules;

(d) restricting the right to practise as a member of the profession if the qualification granted outside Nigeria does not entitle the holder to practise as a member of the profession; and

(e) prescribing the period of practical training in the office of a chartered member of the profession in practice to be completed before a person qualifies for a license to practise as a member of the profession.

(3) Rules when made shall, if the chairman of the Council so directs, be published in the Gazette.

20. Provision of library facilities, etc.

The Institute shall-

(a) provide and maintain a library comprising books and publications for the promotion and advancement of knowledge of the art and science of administration, and such other books and publications as the Council may think necessary for the purpose;

(b) encourage research into industrial administration in such area of services as-

(i) plant location design, layout equipment and maintenance;

(ii) materials, products planning and control;

(iii) product development;

(iv) output or sales determination;

(v) organisation of materials and production control;

(vi) sourcing of goods and materials;

(vii) movement and distribution of goods and materials;

(viii) profit appraisal and organisation;

(ix) work study and measurement;

(x) financial and general administration of materials, goods and services;

(xi) office services administration,

and such other areas of study as the Council may deem appropriate.

21. Powers of the Minister to give directives to the Council

The Minister may give to the Council directives of a general character or relating generally to particular matters (but not to any individual person or case) with regard to the exercise by the Council of its functions and it shall be the duty of the Council to comply with the directives.

22. Regulations

(1) Any regulations, made under this Act, shall be published in the Federal Gazette as soon as may be after they are made; and a copy of any such regulations shall be sent to the Minister not later than 7 days before they are so published.

(2) Rules made for the purposes of this Act, shall be subject to confirmation by the Institute at its next general meeting or at any special meeting of the Institute convened for the purpose, and if then annulled, shall cease to have effect on the day of annulment, but without prejudice to anything done in pursuance or intended pursuance of any such rules.

23. Offences and penalties

(1) Any person who, for the purpose of procuring the registration of any name, qualification or other matter-

(a) makes a statement which he believes to be false in a material particular; or

(b) recklessly makes a statement which is false in a material particular,

commits an offence.

(2) If, on or after the coming into force of this Act, any person who, not being a member of the Institute, practises or holds himself out to practise as a member of the profession for or in expectation of reward or takes or uses any name, title, addition or description implying that he is in practice as a member of the profession, he commits an offence.

(3) In the case of a person falling within section 17 of this Act-

(a) the provision of subsection (2) of this section shall not apply in respect of anything done by him during the period of three months mentioned in that section; and

(b) if within that period he duly applies for membership of the Institute, then unless within that period he is notified that his application has not been approved, the provision of subsection (2) of this section shall not apply in respect of anything done by him between the end of that period and the date on which he is registered or is notified as aforesaid.

(4) If the Registrar or any other person employed by or on behalf of the Institute wilfully makes any falsification in any matter relating to the register, he commits an offence.

(5) A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable-

(a) on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding N1,000; or

(b) on conviction on indictment, to a fine not exceeding N5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(6) Where an offence under this section which has been committed by a body corporate is proved to have been committed with the consent or connivance of or to be attributable to any neglect on the part of any director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate or any person purporting to act in any such capacity, he as well as the body corporate, shall be deemed to have committed that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

24. Interpretation

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"Board" means the National Board for Technical Education established under the National Board for Technical Education Act;

[Cap. N9.]

"Council" means the Council established as the governing body of the Institute under section 4 of this Act;

"fees" includes annual subscriptions;

"Incorporated Institute" means the Institute of Executive Secretaries and Administration of Nigeria incorporated under the Companies Act, 1968;

[1968 No. 51.]

"Institute" means the Chartered Institute of Administration established under section 1 of this Act;

"member of the Institute" means a registered fellow, member, associate, honorary member, honorary fellow or retired member and "membership of the Institute" shall be construed accordingly;

"Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibility for matters relating to education;

"Panel" has the meaning assigned to it by section 15 of this Act;

"President" and "Vice-President" mean respectively the office holders under those names in the Institute;

"profession" means the profession of administration;

"register" means the register maintained in pursuance of section 6 of this Act; and

"Tribunal" has the meaning assigned to it by section 15 of this Act.

25. Short title

This Act may be cited as the Chartered Institute of Administration Act.