1. 	Best interest of a Child to be of paramount consideration in all actions
In every action concerning a child, whether undertaken by an individual, public or private body,
institutions or service, court of law, or administrative or legislative authority, the best interest of the
child shall be the primary consideration.
2. 	A child to be given protection and care necessary for his well‐being
(1) A child shall be given such protection and care as is necessary for the well‐being of the child,
taking into account the rights and duties of the child’s parents, legal guardians, or other individuals,
institutions, services, agencies, organisations or bodies legally responsible for the child.
(2) Every person, institution, service, agency, organization and body responsible for the care or
protection of children shall conform with the standards established by the appropriate authorities,
particularly in the areas of safety, health, welfare, number and suitability of their staff and competent
supervision.
PART II
Rights and Responsibilities of a Child
Rights of a Child
3. 	Application of Chapter IV of 1999 Constitution, etc
(1) The provisions in Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999, or
any successive constitutional provisions relating to Fundamental Rights, shall apply as if those provisions
are expressly stated in this Act.
(2) In addition to the rights guaranteed under Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria, 1999, or under any successive constitutional provisions, every child has the rights
set out in this Part of the Act.
4. 	Right to survival and development
Every child has a right to survival and development.
5. 	Right to name
(1) Every child has a right to a name and, accordingly, shall be given a name on his birth or on
such other date as is dictated by the culture of his parents or guardian.

-- 16 of 265 --

(2) The birth of every child shall be registered in accordance with the provisions of the Birth,
Death, etc. (Compulsory Registration) Act, 1992.
6. 	Freedom of association and peaceful assembly
Every child has a right to freedom of association and peaceful assembly in conformity with the
law and in accordance with the necessary guidance and directions of his parents or guardians.
7. 	Freedom of thought, conscience and religion
(1) Every child has a right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion,
(2) Parents and, where applicable, legal guardians shall provide guidance and direction in the
exercise of these rights having regard to the evolving capacities and best interest of the child.
(3) The duty of parents and, where applicable, legal guardians to provide guidance and direction
in the enjoyment of the right in subsection (1) of this section by their child or ward shall be respected by
all persons, bodies, institutions and authorities.
(4) Whenever the fostering, custody, guardianship or adoption of a child is in issue, the right of
the child to be brought up in and to practice his religions shall be a paramount consideration.
8. 	Right to private and family life
(1) Every child is entitled to his privacy, family life, home, correspondence, telephone
conversation and telegraphic communications, except as provided in subsection (3) of this section.
(2) No child shall be subjected to any interference with his right in subsection (1) of this section,
except as provided in subsection (3) of this section.
(3) Nothing in the provision of subsections (1) and (2) of this section shall affect the rights of
parents and, where applicable, legal guardians, to exercise reasonable supervision and control over the
conduct of their children and wards.
9. 	Right to freedom of movement
(1) Every child is entitled to freedom of movement subject to parental control which is not
harmful to the child.
(2) Nothing in subsection (1) of this section shall affect the right of a parent, and where
applicable, a legal guardian or other appropriate authority to exercise control over the movement of the
child in the interest of the education, safety and welfare of the child.
10. 	Right to freedom from discrimination

-- 17 of 265 --

(1) A child shall not be subjected to any form of discrimination merely by reason of his belonging
to a particular community or ethnic group or by reason of his place of origin, sex, religion or political
opinion.
(2) No child shall be subjected to any disability or deprivation merely by reason of the
circumstances of his birth.
11. 	Right to dignity of the child
Every child is entitled to respect for the dignity of his person, and accordingly, no child shall be‐
(a) 	subjected to physical, mental or emotional injury, abuse, neglect or maltreatment,
including sexual abuse;
(b) 	subjected to torture, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment;
(c) 	subjected to attacks upon his honor or reputation; or
(d) 	held in slavery or servitude, while in the care of a parent, legal guardian or school
authority or any other person or authority having the care of the child.
12. 	Right to leisure, recreation and cultural activities
(1) Every child is entitled to rest and leisure and to engage in play, sports and recreational
activities appropriate to his age.
(2) Every child is entitled to participate fully in the cultural and artistic activities of the Nigerian,
African and world communities.
(3) Every Government, person, institution, service, agency, organisation and body, responsible
for the care and welfare of a child shall, at all times, ensure adequate opportunities for the child in the
enjoyment of the rights provided for the child in subsections (1) and (2) of this section.
13. 	Right to health and health services
(1) Every child is entitled to enjoy the best attainable state of physical, mental and spiritual
health.
(2) Every Government, parent, guardian, institution, service, agency, organisation or body
responsible for the care of a child shall endeavour to provide for the child the best attainable state of
health.
(3) Every Government in Nigeria shall‐
(a) 	endeavour to reduce infant and child mortality rate;
(b) 	ensure the provision of necessary medical assistance and health care services to all
children with emphasis on the development of primary health care;

-- 18 of 265 --

(c) 	ensure the provision of adequate nutrition and safe drinking water;
(d) 	ensure the provision of good hygiene and environmental sanitation;
(e) 	combat disease and malnutrition within the framework of primary health care through
the application of appropriate technology;
(f) 	ensure appropriate health care for expectant and nursing mothers; and
(g) 	support, through technical and financial means, the mobilisation of national and local
community resources in the development of primary health care for children;
(4) Every parent guardian or person having the care and custody of a child under the age of two
years shall ensure that the child is provided with full immunisation.
(5) Every parent, guardian or person having the care of a child who fails in the duty imposed on
him under subsection (4) of this section commits an offence and is liable on conviction for‐
(a) 	a first offence, to a fine not exceeding five thousand naira; and
(b) 	second or any subsequent offence, whether in respect of that child or any other child, to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one month.
(6) The Court may make, in substitution for or addition to any penalty stipulated under
subsection (5) of this section, an order compelling the parent or guardian of a child to get the
child immunised.
14. 	Right to parental care, protection and maintenance
(1) Every child has a right to parental care and protection, and accordingly, no child shall be
separated from his parents against the wish of the child except‐
(a) 	for the purpose of his education and welfare; or
(b) 	in the exercise of a judicial determination in accordance with the provisions of this Act,
in the best interest of the child.
(2) Every child has the right to maintenance by his parents or guardians in accordance with the
extent of their means, and the child has the right, in appropriate circumstances, to enforce this right in
the Family Court.
15. 	Right of a child to free, compulsory and universal primary education, etc.
(1) Every child has the right to free, compulsory and universal basic education and it shall be the
duty of the Government in Nigeria to provide such education.
(2) Every parent or guardian shall ensure that his child or ward attends and completes his‐

-- 19 of 265 --

(a) 	primary school education; and
(b) 	junior secondary education.
(3) Every parent, guardian or person who has the care and custody of a child who has completed
his basic education, shall endeavour to send the child to a senior secondary school, except as provided
for in subsection (4) of this section.
(4) Where a child to whom subsection (3) of this section applies is not sent to senior secondary
school, the child shall be encouraged to learn an appropriate trade and the employer of the child shall
provide the necessaries for learning the trade.
(5) A female child who becomes pregnant, before completing her education shall be given the
opportunity, after delivery, to continue with her education, on the basis of her individual ability.
(6) Where a parent, guardian or person who has care and custody of a child, fails in the duty
imposed on him under subsection (2) of this section, commits an offence and is liable‐
(a) 	on first conviction to be reprimanded and ordered to undertake community service;
(b) 	on second conviction to a fine of two thousand naira or imprisonment for a term not
exceeding one month or to both such fine and imprisonment; and
(c) 	on any subsequent conviction to a fine not exceeding five thousand naira or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding two months or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
(7) The provisions of this section shall not apply to children with mental disabilities.
16. 	Right of a child in need of special protection measure
(1) Every child who is in need of special protection measures has the right to such measure of
protection as is appropriate to his physical, social, economic, emotional and mental needs and under
conditions which ensure his dignity, promote his self‐reliance and active participation in the affairs of
the community.
(2) Every person, authority, body or institution that has the care or the responsibility for
ensuring the care of a child in need of special protection measures shall endeavour, within the available
resources, to provide the child with such assistance and facilities which are necessary for his education,
training, preparation for employment, rehabilitation, and recreational opportunities in a manner
conducive to his achieving the fullest possible social integration and individual development and his
cultural and moral development.
17. 	Right of the unborn child to protection against harm, etc.
(1) A child may bring an action for damages against a person for harm or injury caused to the
child willfully, recklessly, negligently or through neglect before, during or after the birth of that child.

-- 20 of 265 --

(2) Where the father of an unborn child dies intestate, the unborn child is entitled, if he was
conceived during the lifetime of his father, to be considered in the distribution of the estate of the
deceased father.
(3) Where the mother of an unborn child dies intestate before the child is delivered, the unborn
child is entitled, if he survives his mother, to be considered in the distribution of the estate of the
deceased mother.
18. 	Contractual rights of a child
(1) No child shall enter into a contract, except as provided in this section.
(2) Any contract, except a contact for necessaries, entered into by a child for repayment of
money lent or for payment of goods supplied to the child, shall be void.
(3) Accordingly‐
(a) 	no action shall be brought against a child by a person after the child has attained the
age of majority, to pay a debt contracted before majority or ratified on majority or any
promise of contract made by the child before majority, whether or not there was new
consideration for the promises or ratification after the child attained majority ;
(b) 	if a child who has entered into a contract for a loan which is void agrees after majority
to pay the loan, the agreement in whatever form it may be, shall be void so far as it
relates to money which is payable in respect of the loan.
19. 	Responsibilities of a child and parent
(1) Every child has responsibilities towards his family and society, the Federal Republic of Nigeria
and other legally recognized communities, nationally and internationally.
(2) A child shall, subject to his age and ability and such other limitations as may be contained in
this Act and any other law, to ‐
(a) 	work towards the cohesion of his family and community;
(b) 	respect his parents, superiors and elders at all times and assist them in case of need;
(c) 	serve the Federal Republic of Nigeria by placing his physical and intellectual abilities at
his service;
(d) 	contribute to the moral well‐being of the society ;
(e) 	preserve am strengthen social and national solidarity;
(f) 	preserve and strengthen the independence and integrity of Federal Republic of Nigeria;

-- 21 of 265 --

(g) 	respect the ideals of democracy, freedom, equality, humaneness, honesty and justice
for all persons ;
(h) 	relate with other members of the society, with different cultural values in the spirit of
tolerance, dialogue and consultation;
(i) 	contribute to the best of his abilities at all times and at all levels, to the promotion and
achievement of Nigerian, African and world unity; and
(j) 	contribute to the best of his abilities. at all times and at all levels, to the solidarity of the
African people and the human race.
20. 	Parent, etc. to provide guidance with respect to child’s responsibilities
Every parent, guardian, institution, person and authority responsible for the care, maintenance,
upbringing, education, training, socialisation, employment and rehabilitation of a child has the duty to
provide the necessary guidance, discipline, education and training for the child in his or its care such as
will equip the child to secure his assimilation, appreciation and observance of the responsibilities set out
in this Part of the Act.
PART III
Protection of the Rights of a Child
21. 	Prohibition of child marriage
No person under the age of 18 years is capable of contracting a valid marriage, and accordingly a
marriage so contracted is null and void and of no effect whatsoever.
22. 	Prohibition of child betrothal
(1) No parent, guardian or any other person shall betroth a child to any person.
(2) A betrothal in contravention of subsection (1) of this section is null and void.
23. 	Punishment for child marriage and betrothal
A person‐
(a) 	who marries a child; or
(b) 	to whom a child is betrothed; or
(c) 	who promotes the marriage of a child; or
(d) 	who betroths a child,

-- 22 of 265 --

commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of N500,000; or imprisonment for a term of five
years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
24. 	Tattoos and skin marks
(1) No person shall tattoo or make a skin mark or cause any tattoo or skin mark to be made on a
child.
(2) A person who tattoos or makes a skin mark on a child commits an offence under this Act and
is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five thousand naira or imprisonment for a term not
exceeding one month or to both such fine and imprisonment.
25. 	Exposure to use, production and trafficking of narcotic drugs, etc.
(1) No person shall‐
(a) 	expose or involve a child in the use of narcotic drugs and psycho tropic substances; or
(b) 	expose or involve a child in the production or trafficking of narcotic drugs or psychotopic
substances; or
(2) A person who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1) or (2) of this section commits an
offence and is liable on conviction to imprisonment for life.
Use of Children in Other Criminal Activities
26. 	Use of children in other criminal activities
(1) No person shall employ, use or involve a child in any activity involving or leading to the
commission of any other offence not already specified in this Part of the Act.
(2) A person who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1) of this section commits an
offence and is liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of fourteen years.
27. 	Abduction, removal and transfer from lawful custody
(1) No person shall remove or take a child out of the custody or protection of his father or
mother, guardian or such other person having lawful care or charge of the child against the will of the
father, mother, guardian or other person.
(2) A person who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1) of this section commits an offence and is
liable on conviction‐
(a) 	where the child is unlawfully removed or taken out of Federal Republic of Nigeria‐
(i) 	with intention to return the child to Nigeria, to imprisonment for a term of
fifteen years; or

-- 23 of 265 --

(ii) 	with no intention to return the child to Nigeria, to imprisonment for a term of
twenty years;
(b) 	where the child is unlawfully removed or taken out of the State in which the father,
mother, guardian or such other person who has lawful care of the child is ordinarily
resident, to imprisonment for a term of ten years; or
(c) 	in any case, to imprisonment for a term of seven years.
Child Labour
28. 	Prohibition of exploitative labour
(1) Subject to this Act, no child shall be‐
(a) 	subjected to any forced or exploitative labour; or
(b) 	employed to work in any capacity except where he is employed by a member of his
family on light work of an agricultural, horticultural or domestic character; or
(c) 	required, in any case, to lift, carry or move anything so heavy as to be likely to adversely
affect his physical, mental, spiritual, moral or social development; or
(d) 	employed as a domestic help outside his own home or family environment.
(2) No child shall be employed or work in an industrial undertaking and nothing in this
subsection shall apply to work done by children in technical schools or similar approved institutions if
the work is supervised by the appropriate authority.
(3) Any person who contravenes any provision of subsection (1) or (2) of this section commits an
offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand naira or imprisonment for a
term of five years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(4) Where an offence under this section is committed by a body corporate, any person who at
the time of the commission of the offence was a proprietor, director, general manager or other similar
officer, servant or agent of the body corporate shall be deemed to have jointly and severally committed
the offence and may be liable on conviction to a fine of two hundred and fifty thousand naira.
29. 	Application of Labour Act
The provisions relating to young persons in sections 58, 59, 60, 61, 62 and 63 of the Labour Act
shall apply to children under this Act.
[L.F.N. 2004 Cap. L1.]
Buying, Selling, etc., for the Purpose of Begging And Prostitution, etc.

-- 24 of 265 --

30. 	Prohibition of buying, selling, hiring or otherwise dealing in children for the purpose of
hawking or begging for alms or prostitution, etc.
(1) No person shall buy, sell, hire, let on hire, dispose of or obtain possession of or otherwise
deal in a child.
(2) A child shall not be used‐
(a) 	for the purpose of begging for alms, guiding beggars, prostitution, domestic or sexual
labour or for any unlawful or immoral purpose ; or
(b) 	as a slave or for practices similar to slavery such as sale or trafficking of the child, debt
bondage or serfdom and forced or compulsory labour; .
(c) 	for hawking of goods or services on main city streets, brothels or highways;
(d) 	for any purpose that deprives the child of the opportunity to attend and remain in
school as provided for under the Compulsory, Free Universal Basic Education Act ;
(e) 	procured or offered for prostitution or for the production of pornography or for any
pornographic performance; and
(f) 	procured or offered for any activity in the production or trafficking of illegal drugs and
any other activity relating to illicit drugs as specified in the National Drug Law
Enforcement Agency Act.
[L.F.N. 20004 Cap. N30]
(3) A person who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1) of this section commits an
offence and is liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of ten years.
Unlawful Sexual Intercourse, etc.
31. 	Unlawful sexual intercourse with a child, etc.
(1) No person shall have sexual intercourse with a child.
(2) A person who contravenes the provision of Subsection (1) of this section commits an offence
of rape and is liable on conviction to imprisonment for life.
(3) Where a person is charged with an offence under this section, it is immaterial that‐
(a) 	the offender believed the person to be of or above the age of eighteen years; or
(b) 	the sexual intercourse was with the consent of the child.
Other Forms of Sexual Abuse and Exploitation

-- 25 of 265 --

32. 	Forms of sexual abuse and exploitation
(1) A person who sexually abuses or sexually exploits a child in any manner not already
mentioned under this Part of this Act commits an offence.
(2) A person who commits an offence under subsection (1) of this section is liable on conviction
to imprisonment for a term of fourteen years.
Other Forms of Exploitation
33. 	Other forms of exploitation
(1) A person who exploits a child in any other form or way not already mentioned in this Part of
this Act which is prejudicial to the welfare of the child commits an offence.
(2) A person who commits an offence under subsection (1) of this section is liable on conviction
to a fine of five hundred thousand naira or imprisonment to a term of five years, or to both such fine
and imprisonment.
Recruitment into the Armed Forces
34. 	Prohibition of recruitment of children into the Armed Forces
(1) No child shall be recruited into any of the branches of the armed forces of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria.
(2) The Government or any other relevant agency or body shall ensure that no child is directly
involved in any military operation or hostilities.
Harmful Publication
35. 	Prohibition of importation of harmful publication
(1) No person shall import any harmful publication under this Act.
(2) A person who imports any harmful publication commits an offence and is liable on conviction
to a fine of thirty thousand naira or imprisonment for a term of three years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
36. 	Penalty for harmful publication
(1) A person who‐
(a) 	prints, publishes, sells or lets on hire any harmful publication; or
(b) 	has in his possession for the purpose of selling, or letting on hire any harmful
publication,

-- 26 of 265 --

commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of fifty thousand naira or imprisonment for a
term of five years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) Where a person is charged with an offence under this section, it is immaterial that the
person had not examined the contents of the publication and has no reasonable cause to suspect that
the publication was one to which this Act applies.
37. 	Power to issue warrant of arrest, summons, search, etc., for harmful publications
(1) Where an information is brought before a court that a person has committed or is suspected
of committing an offence under section 35 or 36 of this Act with respect to any harmful publication, the
Court may issue a warrant for the arrest of that person.
(2) The Court may, if satisfied by the information substantiated, on oath, that there is
reasonable ground for suspecting that a person charged with or suspected of committing an offence has
in his possession or under his control‐
(a) 	copies of any harmful publication; or
(b) 	any plate prepared for the purpose of printing copies of harmful publication or any
photographic film prepared for that purpose,
grant a search warrant authorising a police officer named therein to enter (if necessary by force) any
premises specified in the warrant and any vehicle, or shop or stall used by the said person for the
purpose of any trade or business, and to search the premises, vehicle, shop or stall.
(3) The police officer on searching the premises, may seize any of the following items‐
(a) 	any copy of the harmful publication and any other copies which the police officer has
reasonable cause to believe to be harmful publication; and
(b) 	any plate or photographic film which the police officer has reasonable cause to believe
to have been prepared for the purpose of printing copies of any harmful publication.
38. 	Power of Court to order forfeiture, etc.
(1) The Court by or before which a person is convicted of an offence under section 35 or 36 of
this Act may order for any copy of the harmful publication and any place or photographic film prepared
for the purpose of printing the harmful publication found in the possession of the convicted person
under his control, to be forfeited.
(2) The power to order forfeiture under subsection (1) of this section shall not extend to a case
where the accused person has successfully raised a defence against the charge.

-- 27 of 265 --

(3) No order made under subsection (1) of this section by a Magistrate’s Court, or a High Court
in case of an appeal from a Magistrate’s Court to the High Court, shall take effect‐
(a) 	until the expiration of the ordinary time within which an appeal may be lodged, whether
by giving notice of appeal or applying for a case to be stated for the opinion of the High
Court; or
(b) 	where an appeal is duly lodged, until the appeal is finally decided or abandoned.
(5) Before a forfeiture order is made under this section, the Court shall hear the author,
copyright owner or main publisher of the harmful publication if he so wishes.
[Editorial Note: Subsection (4) omitted. Numbering as per Gazette.]
Miscellaneous
39. 	Removal of jurisdictional limitation of magistrates, etc.
Notwithstanding any jurisdictional limitation on the powers of a Magistrate’s Court and any
other court in relation to the imposition of fines or terms of imprisonment contained in any law, a
Magistrate’s Court or any other court before which the offences created in this Part of this Act are tried
shall have the full jurisdictional powers to impose up to the maximum penalties prescribed for the
offences created in this Part of this Act.
40. 	Application of Criminal Law provisions
Any person in any other law securing the protection of the child, whether born or unborn, shall
continue to apply and is hereby adopted for the protection of the child by this Act, notwithstanding that
the provision has not otherwise been specifically provided for by this Act.
PART IV
Protection of Children
41. 	Child assessment orders
(1) A State Government or an appropriate authority may apply to the Court for a child
assessment order with respect to a child and the Court may make the order, if it is satisfied that‐
(a) 	the applicant has reasonable cause to suspect that the child is suffering, or likely to
suffer, significant harm;
(b) 	an assessment of the state of the health or development of the child or of the way in
which the child has been treated, is required to enable the applicant to determine
whether or not the child is suffering, or is likely to suffer, significant harm; and

-- 28 of 265 --

(c) 	it is unlikely that such assessment will be made, or be satisfactory, in the absence of an
order under this section.
(2) A court may treat an application under this section as an application for an emergency
protection order.
(3) No Court shall make a child assessment order if it is satisfied that‐
(a) 	there are grounds for making an emergency protection order with respect to the child;
and
(b) 	it ought to make an emergency protection order rather than a child assessment order.
(4) A child assessment order shall‐
(a) 	specify the date on which the assessment is to begin; and
(b) 	have effect for such period, not exceeding nine days beginning with that date, as may be
specified in the order.
(5) Where a child assessment order is in force with respect to a child it shall be the duty of any
person who is in a position to produce the child to‐
(a) 	produce him to such person as may be named in the order; and
(b) 	comply with such directions relating to the assessment of the child as the Court thinks
fit to specify in the order.
(6) A child assessment order shall contain an authority to the person carrying out the
assessment, or any part of the assessment, to do so in accordance with the terms of the order.
(7) Notwithstanding subsection (6) of this section, if the child has sufficient understanding to
make an informed decision, he may refuse to submit to medical or psychiatric examination or any other
assessment.
(8) A child may only be kept away from home‐
(a) 	in accordance with directions specified in the child assessment order;
(b) 	if it is necessary for the purpose of the assessment; and
(c) 	for such period or periods as may be specified in the assessment order.
(9) Where a child is to be kept away from home, the order shall contain such directions as the
Court thinks fit with regard to the contact that the child must be allowed to have with other persons
while away from home.

-- 29 of 265 --

(10) A person making an application for a child assessment order shall, before the hearing of the
application, take such steps as are reasonably practicable to ensure that notice of the application is
given to‐
(a) 	the parents of the child;
(b) 	a person who, though not a parent of the child, has parental responsibility for the child;
or
(c) 	any other person having the care of the child;
(d) 	a person in whose favour a contact is in force with respect to the child;
(e) 	a person who is allowed to have contact with the child by virtue of an order made under
section 55 of this Act; or
(f) 	the child concerned.
(11) Rules of Court may make provision as to the circumstances in which‐
(a) 	any of the persons mentioned in subsection (10) of this section; or
(b) 	such other persons as may be specified in the rules, may apply to the Court for a child
assessment order to be varied or discharged.
42. 	Emergency protection orders
(1) A State Government or an appropriate authority may apply to the Court for an emergency
protection order with respect to a child and the Court may make the order if it is satisfied‐
(a) 	that there is reasonable cause to believe that the child is likely to suffer significant harm
if‐
(i) 	he is not removed to an Emergency Protection Centre or any other approved
suitable accommodation provided by or on behalf of the applicant; or
(ii) 	he does not remain in the place in which he is then being accommodated; and
(b) 	in the case of an application made by a State Government or any appropriate authority,
that‐
(i) 	the applicant has reasonable cause to suspect that the child is suffering, or is
likely to suffer, significant harm ;
(ii) 	enquiries with respect to the welfare of the child are being frustrated by access
to the child being unreasonably refused to a person authorised to seek access ;
and

-- 30 of 265 --

(iii) 	the applicant has reasonable cause to believe that access to the child is required
as a matter of urgency.
(2) A person‐
(a) 	seeking access to a child in connection with enquires of any kind mentioned in
subsection (1) of this section; and
(b) 	purporting to be a person authorised to do so,
shall, on being asked to do so, produce some duly authenticated document as evidence that he is such a
person.
(3) While an emergency protection order is in force, it‐
(a) 	gives the applicant parental responsibility for the child ;
(b) 	operates as a direction to a person who is in a position to do so to comply with any
request to produce the child to the applicant; and
(c) 	authorises the removal of the child at any time to accommodation provided by or on
behalf of the applicant and his being kept there; or
(d) 	prevents the child from being removed from any hospital, or other place, in which he
was being accommodated immediately before the making of the order.
(4) Where an emergency protection order is in force, the applicant shall‐
(a) 	only exercise the power given by virtue of subsection (3) (c) or (d) of this section in order
to safeguard the welfare of the child;
(b) 	take only such action, in meeting his parental responsibility for the child, as is
reasonably required to safeguard or promote the welfare of the child, having regard, in
particular, to the duration of the order; and
(c) 	comply with the requirements of any regulations made by the Minister for the purposes
of this subsection.
(5) Where the Court makes an emergency protection order, it may give such directions as it
considers appropriate with respect to‐
(a) 	the contact which is, or is not, to be allowed between the child and any named person; or
(b) 	medical or psychiatric examination or any other assessment of the child.
(6) Where a direction is given under subsection (5) (b) of this section, the child may, if he has
sufficient understanding to make an informed decision, refuse to submit to the examination or other
assessment.

-- 31 of 265 --

(7) A direction given under subsection (5) (a) of this section may impose such conditions as the
Court considers appropriate and a direction under subsection (5) (b) of this section may‐
(a) 	prohibit the examination or assessment of the child; or
(b) 	allow the examination or assessment of the child only when the Court so directs.
(8) A direction under subsection (5) of this section may be‐
(a) 	given when the emergency protection order is made or at any time while it is in force;
and
(b) 	varied at any time of the application of any class of persons prescribed by Rules of Court
for the purposes of this subsection.
(9) Where an emergency protection order is in force in respect of a child and the applicant has
exercised the power conferred by‐
(a) 	subsection (3) (c) of this section, but it appears to the applicant that it is safe for the
child to be so returned; or
(b) 	Subsection (3) (d) of this section, but it appears to the applicant that it is safe for the
child to be allowed to be removed from the place in question,
the applicant shall return the child or allow the child to be so removed, as the case may be.
(10) Where the applicant is required by subsection (9) of this section to return the child, the
applicant shall –
(a) 	return the child to the care of the person from whose care the child was removed; or
(b) 	if that is not reasonably practicable, return the child to the care of‐
(i) 	a parent of the child; or
(ii) 	a person who, though not a parent of the child, has parental responsibility for
the child; or
(iii) 	such other person as the applicant, with the agreement of the Court, considers
appropriate.
(11) Where the applicant has returned a child or allowed a child to be removed as required by
subsection (9) of this section, the applicant may again, exercise the powers conferred by subsection (3)
(c) and (d) of this section at any time while the emergency protection order remains in force, if it
appears to the applicant that a change in the circumstances of the case makes it necessary for him to do
so.

-- 32 of 265 --

(12) Where an emergency protection order is in force, the applicant shall, subject to any
direction given under subsection (5) of this section, allow the child reasonable contact with‐
(a) 	the parent of the child;
(b) 	a person who, though not a parent of the child, has parental responsibility for the child;
(c) 	a person with whom the child was living immediately before the making of the order;
(d) 	a person in whose favour a contact order is in force with respect to the child;
(e) 	a person who is allowed to have contact with the child by virtue of an order made under
section 55 of this Act; and
(f) 	a person acting on behalf of any of the persons specified in paragraphs (a) to (e) of this
subsection.
(13) Whether it is reasonably practicable to do so, an emergency protection order shall name
the child, and where it does not name the child it shall describe the child, as clearly as possible.
(14) A person who willfully obstructs a person exercising the power under subsection (3) (c) and
(d) of this section to remove, or prevent the removal of a child, commits an offence and is liable on
summary conviction to a fine of two thousand, five hundred naira or imprisonment for a term of three
months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
43. 	Duration of emergency protection orders, etc.
(1) An emergency protection order shall have effect for such period, not exceeding nine days, as
may be specified in the order.
(2) Where the Court making an emergency protection order would, but for this subsection,
specify a period of nine days as the period for which the order is to have effect, but the last of those
nine days is a public holiday or a Sunday, the Court may specify a period which ends at noon on the first
later day which is not a public holiday or a Sunday.
(3) Where an emergency protection order is made on an application under section 42 of this
Act, the period of nine days mentioned in subsection (2) of this section shall begin with the first day on
which the child was taken into police protection under section 44 of this Act.
(4) A person who‐
(a) 	has parental responsibility for a child as a result of an emergency protection order; and
(b) 	is entitled to apply for a care order with respect to a child,
may apply to the Court for the extension of the period during which the emergency protection order is
to have effect.

-- 33 of 265 --

(5) On an application under subsection (4) of this section, the Court may extend the period
during which the order is to have effect, by such period, not exceeding seven days, if it has reasonable
cause to believe that the child concerned is likely to suffer significant harm if the order is not extended.
(6) An emergency protection order may only be extended once.
(7) Notwithstanding any enactment or rule of law which would otherwise prevent it from doing
so, a court hearing an application for, or with respect to an emergency protection order may take
account of‐
(a) 	any statement contained in any report made to the Court in the course of, or in
connection with, hearing; or
(b) 	any evidence given during the hearing, which is, in the opinion of the Court, relevant to
the application.
(8) Any of the following persons may apply to the Court for an emergency protection order to
discharge‐
(a) 	the child; or
(b) 	a parent of a child; or
(c) 	a person who has parental responsibility for the child; or
(d) 	a person with whom the child was living immediately before making of the order.
(9) No application for the discharge of an emergency protection order shall be heard by the
Court before the expiry of the period of seventy‐two hours beginning with the making of the order.
(10) No appeal may be made against the making of, or refusal to make, an emergency
protection order or against any directions given by the Court in connection with the emergency
protection order.
(11) Subsection (8) of this section does not apply‐
(a) 	where the person who would otherwise be entitled to apply for the discharge of the
emergency protection order‐
(i) 	was given notice, in accordance with the Rules of Court, of the hearing at which
the order was made; and
(ii) 	was present at the hearing; or
(b) 	to any emergency protection order, the effective period of which has been extended
under subsection (5) of this section.

-- 34 of 265 --

(12) A court making an emergency protection order may direct that the applicant may, in
exercising any power which he has by virtue of the order, be accompanied by a registered medical
practitioner, registered nurse or registered health visitor, if he so chooses.
44. 	Children taken into police protection in cases of emergency
(1) Where the specialised children police in a State has reasonable cause to believe that a child
is otherwise likely to suffer significant harm, a specialised children police officer may take the child into
police protection by‐
(a) 	removing the child to an Emergency Protection Centre or any other approved suitable
accommodation and keeping the child there; or
(b) 	taking such steps as are reasonable to prevent the child from being removed from any
hospital, or other place, in which the child is then being accommodated.
(2) As soon as is reasonably practicable after taking a child into police protection, the police
officer concerned shall‐
(a) 	inform the State Government within whose area the child was taken of the steps that
have been, and are to be taken with respect to the child under this section and the
reasons for taking those steps;
(b) 	give details of the case to the appropriate authority within whose area the child is
ordinarily resident, that is, the appropriate authority of the place in which the child is
being accommodated;
(c) 	inform the child, if he appears capable of understanding, of –
(i) 	the steps that have been taken with respect to him under this section and of the
reasons for taking those steps; and
(ii) 	further steps that may be taken with respect to him under this section;
(d) 	take such steps as are reasonably practicable to discover the wishes and feelings of the
child ;
(e) 	secure that the case is enquired into by an officer designated for the purpose of this
section by the officer in charge of the specialised children police in the State concerned;
and
(f) 	where the child was taken into protection by being removed to an accommodation
which is not provided‐
(i) 	by or on behalf of a State Government,
(ii) 	as a refuge, in compliance with the requirements of section 48 of this Act,

-- 35 of 265 --

secure that he is moved to an Emergency Protection Centre or any other approved suitable
accommodation which is so provided.
(3) As soon as is reasonably practicable after taking child into police protection, the police
officer concerned shall take such steps as are reasonably practicable to inform‐
(a) 	the parents of the child;
(b) 	a person who, though not a parent of the child, has parental responsibility for the child;
and
(c) 	any other person with whom the child was living Immediately before being taken into
police protection,
the reasons for taking those steps and the further steps that may be taken with respect to the child under
this section.
(4) A police officer designated under subsection (3) (c) of this section shall, on completing an
enquiry under that subsection, release the child from police protection unless he considers that there is
still reasonable cause for believing that the child is likely to suffer significant harm if released.
(5) No child may be kept in police protection for more than seventy‐two hours.
(6) While a child is being kept in police protection, the designated officer may apply on behalf of
the appropriate authority for an emergency protection order to be made under section 42 of this Act
with respect to the child.
(7) An application may be made under subsection (6) of this section whether or not the
appropriate authority knows of it or agrees to its being made.
(8) While a child is being kept in police protection, the police officer concerned or the
designated officer shall not have parental responsibility for him, but designated officer shall do what is
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case for the purpose of safeguarding or promoting the welfare
of the child, having regard in particular to the length of the period during which the child will be so
protected.
(9) Where a child has been taken into police protection, the designated officer shall allow‐
(a) 	the parents of the child;
(b) 	a person who, though not a parent of the child has parental responsibility for the child;
(c) 	a person with whom the child was living immediately before he was taken into police
protection;
(d) 	a person in whose favour a contact order is in force with respect to the child;

-- 36 of 265 --

(e) 	a person who is allowed to have contact with the child by virtue of an order made under
section 55 of this Act; or
(f) 	a person acting on behalf of the persons specified in paragraphs (a) to (e) of this
subsection, to have such contact, if any, with the child as, in the opinion of the
designated officer, in reasonable and in the best interest of the child.
(10) Where a child who has been taken into police protection is in an accommodation provided
by, or on behalf of, the appropriate authority, subsection (9) of this section shall have effect as if
references to designated officer were references to the appropriate authority.
45. 	Duty of a State Government to investigate
(1) Where a State Government‐
(a) 	is informed that a child who lives, or is found, in the State‐
(i) 	is the subject of an emergency protection order; or
(ii) 	has been taken into police protection; or
(b) 	has reasonable cause to suspect that a child who lives, or is found, in the State,
is suffering, or is likely to suffer, significant harm, the State Government shall make, or cause to be
made, such enquiries as it considers necessary to enable it to decide whether it should take any action
to safeguard or promote the welfare of the child.
(2) Where a State Government has obtained an emergency protection order with respect to a
child,it shall make, or cause to be made, such enquiries as it considers necessary to enable it to decide
what action it should take to safeguard or promote the welfare of the child.
(3) The enquiries made under subsection (2) of this section shall, in particular, be directed
towards establishing‐
(a) 	whether the State Government should make an applicant to the Court, or exercise any
of its other powers under this Act, with respect to the child;
(b) 	whether, in the case of a child‐
(i) 	with respect to whom an emergency protection order has been made; and
(ii) 	who is not in accommodation provided by or on behalf of the appropriate
authority, it would be in the best interest of the child, while an emergency
protection order remains in force for the child to be in an accommodation so
provided; and

-- 37 of 265 --

(c) 	whether in the case of a child who has been taken into police protection, it would be in
the best interests of the child for the appropriate authority to ask for an application to
be made under section 43(6) of this Act.
(4) Where enquiries are being made under subsection (1) of this section with respect to a child,
the State Government concerned shall, with a view to enabling it to determine what action, if any, to
take respect to the child, take such steps as are reasonably practicable to‐
(a) 	obtain access to the child; or
(b) 	ensure that access to the child is obtained, on its behalf, by a person authorised by it for
the purpose, unless the State Government is satisfied that it already has sufficient
information with respect to the child.
(5) Where, as a result of enquiries under this section, it appears to the State Government that
there are matters connected with the education of the child which should be investigated, it shall
consult the relevant education authority.
(6) Where, in the course of enquiries under this section, an officer of the State Government
concerned or a person authorised by the State Government to act on its behalf in connection with those
enquiries is –
(a) 	refused access to the child concerned; or
(b) 	denied information as to the whereabouts of the child, the State Government shall
apply for an emergency protection order, a child assessment order, a care order or a
supervision order with respect to the child, unless it is satisfied that the welfare of the
child can be satisfactorily safeguarded without its doing so.
(7) If, on conclusion of any enquiry or review made under this section, the State decides not to
apply for an emergency protection order, a child assessment order, a care order, or a supervision order,
it shall‐
(a) 	consider whether it would be appropriate to review the case at a later date; and
(b) 	if it decides that it would be appropriate to review the case, determine the date on
which that review is to begin.
(8) Where, as a result of complying with this section, a State Government concludes that it
should take action to safeguard or promote the welfare of the child, it shall take that action, if the action
is within its power and it is reasonably practicable for it to do so.
(9) Where a State Government is making an enquiry under this section, the State Government
referred to in subsection (11) of this section shall assist it with the enquiry, in particular, by providing
relevant information and advice, if called on by the State Government to do so.

-- 38 of 265 --

(10) Subsection (9) of this section does not oblige a State Government to assist any other State
Government where doing so would be unreasonable in all circumstances of the case.
(11) Where a State Government is making an enquiry under this section with respect to a child
who appears to it to be ordinarily resident within another State, it shall consult the Government of that
other State and the Government of that other State may undertake the necessary enquiry in the place of
the State Government that commenced the enquiry.
46. 	Disclosure of whereabouts, etc. of children who may be in need of emergency protection
(1) Where it appears to a court making an emergency protection order that adequate
information as to the whereabouts of a child‐
(a) 	is not available to the applicant for the emergency protection order; or
(b) 	is available to another person who is not the applicant,
the Court may include, in the order, a provision requiring that other person to disclose, if asked to do so
by the applicant, any information that he may have as to the whereabouts of the child.
(2) No person shall be excused from complying with a requirement under subsection (1) of this
section on the grounds that complying might incriminate him or his spouse of an offence, but a
statement or admission made in compliance with the requirement shall not be admissible in evidence
against either of them in proceedings for an offence, other than perjury .
(3) An emergency protection order may authorize the applicant to enter premises specified by
the order and search for the child with respect to whom the order is made, and the Court may, if
satisfied that there is reasonable cause to believe that there may be another child on those premises
with respect to whom an emergency protection order ought to be made, make an order authorizing the
applicant to search for the other child on those premises.
(4) Where‐
(a) 	an order has been made under subsection (3) of this section;
(b) 	the child concerned has been found on the premises; and
(c) 	the applicant is satisfied that the grounds for making emergency protection order exist
with respect to the child,
the applicant shall notify the Court, accordingly.
(5) A person who willfully obstructs a person exercising the power of entry and search under
subsection (3) of this section commits an offence and is liable on summary conviction to a fine of twenty
thousand naira or imprisonment for a term of three months or to both such fine and imprisonment.

-- 39 of 265 --

47. 	Abduction of children in care, etc.
(1) A person who knowingly and without lawful authority or reasonable excuse‐
(a) 	takes or keeps a child to whom this section applies away from the person responsible
for the child; or
(b) 	induces, assists or incites a child to whom this section applies to run away or stay away
from the person responsible for the child,
commits an offence under this section and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding seventy
thousand naira or imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
(2) This section applies in relation to a child who is‐
(a) 	in care;
(b) 	the subject of an emergency protection order ; or
(c) 	taken into police protection
48. 	Refuge for children at risk
(1) Where it is proposed to use a voluntary home or registered children’s home to provide
refuge for children who appear to be at risk of harm, the Minister may issue a certificate under this
section with respect to that home.
(2) Where an appropriate authority or a voluntary organisation arranges for a foster parent to
provide such a refuge, the Minister may issue a certificate under this section with respect to that foster
parent.
(3) Where a certificate is in force with respect to a home, none of the provisions contained in
this Act or any other law relating to‐
(a) 	the harbouring of a child who has absconded from residential establishments; or
(b) 	compelling, persuading, inciting or assisting a child to be absent from detention; or
(c) 	the abduction of a child,
shall apply in relation to a person providing refuge for a child in that home.
(4) Where a certificate is in force with respect to a foster parent, the provisions referred to in
subsection (3) of this section shall not apply in relation to the provision by him of a refuge for a child in
accordance with arrangements made by the appropriate authority or voluntary organisation.
(5) The Minister may by regulations‐

-- 40 of 265 --

(a) 	make provisions as to the manner in which certificates, may be issued;
(b) 	impose conditions which shall be complied with while a certificate is in force; and
(c) 	provide for the withdrawal of certificates in prescribed circumstances.
49. 	Rules and regulations under this Part
(1) Without prejudice to section 165 of this Act or any other power to make such rules, the
Court may make rules specifying the procedure to be followed in connection with the proceedings under
this Part of this Act.
(2) The rules may, in particular, make provisions‐
(a) 	as to the form in which an application is to be made or a direction is to be given;
(b) 	prescribing the persons who are to be notified of‐
(i) 	the making or extension, of an emergency protection order; or
(ii) 	the making of an application under section 42 (4) or (5) or 43 (6) of this Act; and
(c) 	as to the content of any notification and the manner in which, and the person by whom,
it is to be given.
(3) The Ministry may, by regulations, provide that, where‐
(a) 	an emergency protection order has been made with respect to a child;
(b) 	the applicant for the order was not the appropriate authority within whose area the
child is ordinarily resident; and
(c) 	the appropriate authority is of the opinion that it would be in the best interest of the
child for the applicant’s responsibilities under the order to be transformed to it,
the appropriate authority shall, subject to its having complied with any conditions imposed by the
regulations, be treated, for the purpose of this Act, as though it and not the original applicant had
applied for, and been granted, the order.
(4) Regulations made under subsection (3) of this section may, in particular, make provisions as
to‐
(a) 	the considerations to which the appropriate authority is to have regard in informing an
opinion as mentioned in subsection (3) (c) of this section; and
(b) 	the time at which responsibility under any emergency protection order is to be treated
as having been transferred to an appropriate authority .

-- 41 of 265 --

PART V
Children in Need of Care and Protection
50. 	Power of certain persons to bring children in need to care and protection before a court in
certain cases
(1) A child development officer, a police officer or any other person authorised by the Minister
may bring a child before the Court if he has reasonable grounds for believing that the child‐
(a) 	is an orphan or is deserted by his relatives;
(b) 	has been neglected or ill‐treated or battered by the person having the care and custody
of the child;
(c) 	has a parent or guardian who does not exercise proper guidance and control over the
child;
(d) 	if found destitute, has both parents or his surviving parent, undergoing imprisonment or
mentally disordered or otherwise severely incapacitated;
(e) 	is under the care of a parent or guardian who, by reason of criminal or drunken habits, is
unfit to have the care of the child;
(f) 	is the daughter of a father who has been convicted of the offence of defilement or
indecent treatment of any of his daughters;
(g) 	is found wandering or has no home or settled place of abode, is on the street or other
public place, or has no visible means of subsistence;
(h) 	is found begging or receiving alms, whether or not there is any pretence of singing,
playing, performing, offering anything for sale or otherwise or is found in any street,
premises or place for the purpose of so beginning or receiving alms;
(i) 	accompanies any person when that person is begging or receiving alms, whether or not
there is any pretence of singing, playing, performing, offering anything for sale, or
otherwise;
(j) 	frequents the company of a reputed thief or common or reputed prostitute;
(k) 	is lodging or residing in a house or the part of a house used by a prostitute for the
purpose of prostitution, or is otherwise living in circumstances calculated to cause,
encourage of favour the seduction or prostitution of the child;

-- 42 of 265 --

(l ) 	is a child in relation to whom an offence against morality has been committed or
attempted;
(m) 	is otherwise exposed to moral or physical danger;
(n) 	is otherwise in need of care, protection or control; or
(o) 	is beyond the control of his parents or guardians.
(2) The person making an application under subsection (1) of this section shall, before the
hearing of the application, take such steps as are reasonably practicable to ensure that notice of the
application is given to‐
(a) 	the parents of the child; or
(b) 	a person who, though not a parent of the child, has parental responsibility for the child;
or
(c) 	any other person who has the care of the child; and
(d) 	the child concerned, if he has sufficient understanding.
(3) The Court, if satisfied that a child brought before it comes within any of the paragraphs of
subsection (1) of this section may‐
(a) 	cause the parent or guardian of the child to enter into a recognisance to exercise proper
care and guardianship over the child; or
(b) 	make a corrective order‐
(i) 	committing the child to the care of any first person whether a relative or not,
who is willing to undertake the care of the child; or
(ii) 	sending the child to an approved institution, in exceptional circumstances
where a non‐institutional measure is impracticable or inappropriate;
(c) 	without making any other order, or in addition to making an order under paragraph (b)
of this subsection, make an order placing the child for a specified period, not exceeding
three years, under the supervision of a supervision officer, or of some other person
appointed for the purpose by the Court.
(4) A child shall not be deemed to come within the scope of paragraph (j) of subsection (1) of
this section, if the only common or reputed prostitute whose company the child frequents is the mother
of the child and it is proved that she exercises proper guidance and due care to protect the child from
moral danger.

-- 43 of 265 --

(5) For the purpose of paragraph (m) of subsection (1) of this section, but without prejudice to
the generality of the words thereof, the fact that a child is found‐
(a) 	destitute or wandering, without any settled place of abode and without visible means of
subsistence;
(b) 	begging or receiving alms, whether or not there is any pretence of singing, playing,
performing or offering anything for sale or otherwise;
(c) 	loitering for the purpose of begging or receiving alms;
(d) 	hawking or street trading; or
(e) 	living in the streets, under bridges, in market places, in motor parks or in other public
places,
is evidence that the child is exposed to moral danger.
(6) A court, before which a person is convicted of having committed, in respect of a child, any
offence referred to in paragraph (f) or (i) of subsection (1) of this section, may‐
(a) 	direct that the child be brought before a court with a view to that court making such
order under subsection (2) of this section as may be proper; or
(b) 	if satisfied that the evidence before it is sufficient to enable it properly exercise
jurisdiction, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Part XIII of this Act, make any
order which the court has power to make.
51. 	Make order where parent or guardian is unable to exercise control
Where the Court is satisfied that the parent or guardian of a child is unable to control the child
the Court may, if further satisfied‐
(a) 	that it is expedient so to deal with the child; and .
(b) 	that the parent or guardian understands the results which will follow from the consents
to making of the order,
make a corrective order in respect of the child or order the child to be placed for a specified period, not
exceeding three years, under the supervision of an appropriate supervisory child development officer or
of some other person appointed for the purpose by the Court.
52. 	Power of Court to order parent, etc., to contribute to maintenance
(1) Where a child is committed ‐
(a) 	to the care of an individual under this Act; or

-- 44 of 265 --

(b) 	in exceptional circumstances, to an approved institution or any other institution,
and the Court is satisfied that the need for the order arose from the neglect on the part of any of the
persons named in subsection (2) of this section, the Court may order that person to make such
contribution towards the maintenance of the child as it may think fit, having regard to all the
circumstances of the case, including the means of the person ordered to make the contribution.
(2) The persons referred to in subsection (1) of this section are ‐
(a) 	the father, step‐father, mother or step‐mother of the child; or
(b) 	a person who is cohabiting with the mother or step‐mother of the child, whether or not
he is the putative father of the child; or
(c) 	the person in whose care and custody the child has been during the two years
immediately preceding the date of the order or committal.
(3) The Court shall order the contribution of such amount per week, per month or per each such
period as it deems proper having regard to the means and earning capacity of the person ordered to
make the contribution and other relevant circumstances.
(4) If a person fails or neglects to comply with an order made under subsection (1) of this
section, the Court may for every breach of the order direct the amount due to be levied in the manner,
by law provided for levying distress in the enforcement of damages or other awards ordered by a court
in a civil proceeding.
(5) The Court which has the jurisdiction over the place in which the person or persons liable to
make contribution may, at any time, on the application of the person or persons or on the application of
an officer of the appropriate authority or other authorised officer, and on proof of a change of
circumstances in the person or persons so required to make the contribution, increase or reduce the
contribution or rescind any order as the Court may deem just.
PART VI
Care And Supervision
53. 	Care and supervision order, general
(1) The Court may, on the application of a State Government, an appropriate authority or any
other authorised person make a ‐
(a) 	care order, placing a child with respect to whom an application is made in the care of a
designated authorised person, appropriate authority or the State Government;
(b) 	supervision order, placing a child under the supervision of a designated appropriate
authority or supervision officer.

-- 45 of 265 --

(2) A Court may make a care order or supervision order if it is satisfied that ‐
(a) 	the care given to the child, or likely to be given to the child if the order were not made,
is not what a parent would reasonably be expected to give to the child; or
(b) 	the child is beyond parental control.
(3) No care order or supervision order shall be made with respect to a person who has attained
the age of eighteen years.
(4) An application under this section may be made on its own or in any other family proceedings.
(5) The Court may, on an application ‐
(a) 	for a care order, make a supervision order;
(b) 	for a supervision order, make a care order.
(6) An authorised person who proposes to make an application under this section, shall‐ .
(a) 	if it is reasonably practicable to do so ; and
(b) 	before making the application, consult the State Government or the appropriate
authority appearing to him to be the authority in whose jurisdiction the child concerned
is ordinarily resident.
(7) An application for a care order or a supervision order made by an authorised person shall not
be entertained by the Court if, at the time when it is made, the child concerned is ‐
(a) 	the subject of an earlier application for a care order or supervision order, which has not
been disposed of; or
(b) 	subject to a care order or supervision order.
(8) The State designated in a care order or supervision order shall ‐
(a) 	be the State in which the child is ordinarily resident; or
(b) 	where the child does not reside in the State, be the State in which any circumstances
arose in consequence of which the order is being made.
(9) Where the question as to whether harm suffered by a child is significant turns on the child’s
health or development, his health or development shall be compared with that which could reasonably
be expected of a child of similar circumstances.
54. 	Period within which application for order under this Part must be disposed of

-- 46 of 265 --

(1) A court before which an application for a order is brought under this Part of this Act shall, in
consideration of any rules made pursuant to subsection (2) of this section‐
(a) 	draw up a timetable with a view to disposing of the application without delay; and
(b) 	give such directions as it considers appropriate for the purpose of ensuring, so far as is
reasonably practicable, that the timetable is adhered to.
(2) The Court may by rules ‐
(a) 	specify the period within which specified steps must be taken in relation to the
proceedings; and
(b) 	make other provisions with respect to the proceedings for the purpose of ensuring, so
far as is reasonably practicable, that the proceedings are disposed of without delay.
55. 	Effect of care order
(1) Where a care order is made, the State Government and the appropriate authority designated
by the order shall receive the child into its care and keep the child in its care while the order remains in
force.
(2) Where ‐
(a) 	a care cider has been made on the application of an authorised person; and
(b) 	the State Government or appropriate authority designated by the order was not
informed of the application, the child may be kept in the care of that person until
received into the care of the State Government or the appropriate authority.
(3) While a care order is in force, the State Government or appropriate authority designated by
the order shall have ‐
(a) 	parental responsibility for the child, subject to any right, duty, power, responsibility or
authority which a parent or guardian of the child has in relation to the child and his
property by virtue of any other enactment; and
(b) 	the power, subject to the following provisions of this section, to determine the extent to
which a parent or guardian of the child may meet his parental responsibility for the
child.
(4) The State Government or appropriate authority shall not exercise power in subsection (3) (b)
of this section unless it is satisfied that it is necessary to do so in order to safeguard or promote the
welfare of the child.

-- 47 of 265 --

(5) Nothing in subsection (3) (b) of this section shall prevent a parent or guardian of the child
who has care of the child from doing what is reasonable in all the circumstances of the case for the
purpose of safeguarding or promoting the welfare of the child.
(6) While a care order is in force with respect to a child, the State Government or the
appropriate authority designated by the order shall not ‐
(a) 	cause the child to be brought up in any religious persuasion, other than that in which he
would have been brought up if the order had not been made; or
(b) 	have the right to ‐
(i) 	consent or withhold consent to the making of an application with respect to the
child under the adoption provisions of this Act; or
(ii) 	appoint a guardian for the child.
(7) While a care order is in force with respect to a child, no person shall ‐
(a) 	cause the child to be known by a new surname; or
(b) 	remove the child from the State of jurisdiction, without either the written consent of
every person who has parental responsibility for the child or the leave of the Court.
(8) Subsection (7) (b) of this section shall not ‐
(a) 	prevent the removal of a child from the state of jurisdiction, for a period of less than
one month, by the authority in whose care he is ; or
(b) 	apply to arrangements for a child to live outside the State, if the required written
consent or the leave of the Court has been obtained.
(9) The making of a care order with respect to a child who is subject to a contact order, a
prohibited steps order, a residence order or a specific issue order, discharges the contact order, the
prohibited steps order, the residence order or the specific issue order.
(10) The making of a care order with respect to a child who is ‐
(a) 	the subject of a supervision order, discharges the supervision order;
(b) 	a ward of court, brings that wardship to an end; and .
(c) 	the subject of a school attendance order, discharges the school attendance order.
(11) Where an emergency protection order is made with respect to a child who is in care, the
care order shall have effect subject to the emergency protection order.

-- 48 of 265 --

(12) Any order made under section 69 or 84 of this Act shall continue in force until the child
attains the age of eighteen years, unless it is brought to an end earlier,
(13) An‐
(a) 	agreement under section 70 of this Act; and
(b) 	appointment under section 84 (3) of (4) of this Act,
shall continue in force until the child attains the age of eighteen, unless it is brought to an end earlier.
(14) The provisions of First Schedule to this Act shall have effect with respect to financial relief
for children.
[First Schedule.]
(15) Subject to this Act, an order made under this section shall, if it would otherwise continue in
force, cease to have effect when the child attains the age of eighteen years.
(16) Where an order under this section has effect with respect to a child who has attained the
age of sixteen, it shall, if it would otherwise continue in force, cease to have effect when the child
attains the age of eighteen years.
(17) A care order, other than an interim care order, shall continue in force until the child attains
the age of eighteen years, unless it is brought to an end earlier.
(18) An order made under any other provisions of this Act in relation to a child shall, if it would
otherwise continue in force, cease to have effect when he attains the age of eighteen years.
(19) Where an application (in this section referred to as “the previous application”) has been
made for‐
(a) 	the discharge of a care order;
(b) 	the discharge of a supervision order;
(c) 	the discharge of an education supervision order; or
(d) 	the substitution of a supervision order for a care order; or
(e) 	a child assessment order,
no further application of a kind mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (e) of this subsection may be made with
respect to the child concerned, without leave of the Court, unless the period between the disposal of
the previous application and the making of the further application exceeds six months.
(20) Subsection (19) of this section does not apply to applications made in relation to interim
orders.

-- 49 of 265 --

(21) Where‐
(a) 	an application made for an order under section 58 of this Act has been refused; and ,
(b) 	a period of less than six months has elapsed since the refusal,
the person who made the application shall not make a further application for such an order with respect
to the same child, unless he has obtained the leave of the Court.
(22) On disposing of an application for an order under this Act, the Court may, whether or not it
makes any other order in response to the application, order that no application for an order under this
Act of any specified kind may be made with respect to the child concerned by any person named in the
order without leave of the Court.
56. 	Parental contacts, etc., with children in care
(1) A State Government or an appropriate authority, shall, subject to the provisions of this
section, allow a child under its care, reasonable contact with‐
(a) 	the parents of the child;
(b) 	the guardian of the child;
(c) 	a person in whose favour a residence order was previously made immediately before a
care order was made; and
(d) 	a person who, immediately before the care order was made, had care of the child by
virtue of an order made by the Court .
(2) On an application made by the State Government, appropriate authority or the child, the
Court may make such order as it considers appropriate with respect to the contact which is to be
allowed between the child and a named person.
(3) On an application made by‐
(a) 	a person mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (d) of subsection (1) of this section; or
(b) 	a person who has obtained leave of the Court to make the application, the Court may
make such order as it considers appropriate with respect to the contact which is to be
allowed between the child and that person.
(4) On an application made by the State Government or the appropriate authority with respect
to the child, the Court may make an order authorising the State Government or the appropriate
authority to refuse to allow contact between the child and a person who is mentioned in paragraphs (a)
to (d) of subsection (1) of this section and named in the order.

-- 50 of 265 --

(5) When making a care order, or in any family proceeding in connection with a child who is in
the care of a State Government, the court may make an order under this section, notwithstanding that
no application for the order has been made with respect to the child, if it considers that the order
should be made.
(6) The state Government or appropriate authority may refuse to allow the contact that would
otherwise be required by virtue of Subsection (1) of this section or an order made under this section if‐
and
(a) 	it is satisfied that it is necessary to do so in order to safeguard or promote the welfare
of the child;
(b) 	the refusal ‐
(i) 	is decided on as a matter of urgency , and
(ii) 	does not last for more seven days.
(7) An order made under this section may impose such conditions as the Court considers
appropriate.
(8) The Court may vary or discharge an order made under this section on the application of the
State Government or appropriate authority, the child concerned or the person named in the order.
(9) An order under this section may be made at the same time as the care order itself or later.
(10) The Court shall, before making a care order‐
(a) 	consider the arrangement which the State Government or appropriate authority has
made, or proposes to make, for affording a person contact with a child to whom this
section applies; and
(b) 	invite me parties to me proceedings to comment on the arrangement
(11) The Minister may by regulations make provisions as to‐
(a) 	the steps to be taken by a State Government or an appropriate authority that has
exercised its powers under subsection (6) of this section;
(b) 	the circumstances in which and conditions subject to which, the terms and conditions of
an order made under this section may be departed from by agreement between the
appropriate authority and the person in relation to whom the order is made; and

-- 51 of 265 --

(c) 	notification by a State Government or an appropriate authority of any variation or
suspension of arrangements made, otherwise than under this section, with a view to
affording a person contact with a child to whom this section applies
57. 	Duty of supervisors while supervision orders are in force
(1) While a supervision order is in force the supervisor shall‐
(a) 	advise, assist and befriend the supervised child;
(b) 	take such steps as are reasonably necessary to give effect to the order; and
(c) 	where‐
(i) 	the order is not wholly complied with, or
(ii) 	the supervisor considers that the order may no longer be necessary, consider
whether or not to apply to the Court for its variation or discharge.
(2) The supplementary provisions set out in Parts I and II of the Second Schedule to this Act
shall apply with respect to supervision orders.
[Second Schedule.]
58. 	Education supervision orders
(1) On the application of an appropriate education authority, the court may make an order to be
known as an education supervision order putting the child with respect to whom the application is made
under the supervision of a designate appropriate education authority.
(2) The Court shall only make in education supervision order if it is satisfied that the child
concerned is of compulsory school age and is not being properly educated.
(3) For the purposes of this section, a child is being properly educated only if he is receiving
efficient full‐time education suitable to his age, ability and aptitude and any special educational needs
he may have.
(4) Where a child is‐
(a) 	the subject of a school attendance order which is in force and which has not been
complied with; or
(b) 	a registered pupil at a school which he is not attending regularly,
it shall be assumed that he is not being properly educated unless the contrary is proved,
(5) An education supervision order may be made with respect to a child who is in the care of a
State Government if the court deems it necessary in the interest of the child.

-- 52 of 265 --

(6) The appropriate education authority designated in an education supervising order shall be‐
(a) 	the authority within whose area the child concerned is living or will live; or
(b) 	the authority within whose area a school is situated if‐
(i) 	the child is a registered pupil at that school; and
(ii) 	the authority mentioned in paragraph (a) of this subsection and the authority
within whose area the school is situated agree.
(7) An appropriate education authority which proposes to make an application for an education
supervision order shall, before making the application, consult the child services committee or unit of
the appropriate authority.
(8) The supplementary provisions set out in Part III of the Second Schedule to this Act shall apply
with respect to education supervision orders.
[Second Schedule.]
59. 	Power of Court in proceedings where question of welfare of child arises
(1) Where, it appears to the Court in proceedings in which a question arises as to the welfare of
a child, that it may be appropriate for a care or supervision order to be made with respect to that child,
the Court may direct the appropriate authority to undertake an investigation of the child’s
circumstances.
(2) Where the Court gives a direction under this section, the appropriate authority concerned
shall, when undertaking the investigation, consider whether it should‐
(a) 	apply for a care order or a supervision order with respect to the child; or
(b) 	provide services as assistance for the child and his family; or
(c) 	take any other action with respect to the child.
(3) Where the appropriate authority undertakes an investigation under this section and decides
not to apply for a care order or supervision order with respect to the child concerned, the appropriate
authority shall inform the Court of‐
(a) 	its reasons for so deciding;
(b) 	any service or assistance which it has provided, or intends to provide, for the child and
his family; and
(c) 	any other action which it has taken or proposes to take, with respect to the child.

-- 53 of 265 --

(4) The information referred to in subsection (3) of this section shall be given to the Court before
the end of the period of eight weeks, beginning with the date of the direction, unless the Court
otherwise directs.
(5) If, on the conclusion of an investigation or review under this section, the appropriate
authority decides not to apply for a care order or supervision order with respect to the child, the
appropriate authority shall consider whether it would be appropriate to review the case at a later date.
(6) If the appropriate authority, decides that it would review the case pursuant to subsection (5)
of this section, it shall determine the date ob which that review is to begin.
(7) In this section, the appropriate authority, means‐
(a) 	the authority in whose State the child is ordinarily resident; or
(b) 	where the child does not reside in the State, the authority within whose State any
circumstances arose in consequence of which the direction is being given
60. 	Interim orders
(1) Where‐
(a) 	in any proceeding on an application for a care or supervision order, the proceeding is
adjourned; or
(b) 	the Court gives a direction under section 59 (1) of this Act, the Court may make an
interim care order ,or an interim supervision order with respect to the child concerned.
(2) The Court shall not make an interim care order or interim supervision order under this
section unless it is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the circumstances with
respect to the child are as mentioned in Section 53 (2) of this Act.
(3) Where, in any proceeding on an application for a care order or supervision order, the Court
makes a residence order with respect to the child concerned, it shall also make an interim supervision
order with respect to the child unless it is satisfied that the welfare of the child will be satisfactorily
safeguard without an interim supervision order being made.
(4) An interim order made under or by virtue of this section shall have effect for such period as
may be specified in the order, but shall cease to have effect on whichever of the following events first
occurs‐
(a) 	the expiry of the period of ten weeks beginning with the date on which the order is
made;
(b) 	if the order is the second or is subsequent to an order made with respect to the same
child in the same proceedings, the expiry of the relevant period;

-- 54 of 265 --

(c) 	in a case which falls within subsection (1) (a) of this section, the disposal of an
application;
(d) 	in a case which falls within subsection (1) (b) of this section, the disposal of an
application for a care order or supervision order made by the appropriate authority with
respect to the child;
(e) 	in a case which falls within subsection (1) (b) of this section and in which the court has
given a direction under section 62 (1) of this Act, but no application for a care order or
supervision order has been made with respect to the child, the expiry of the period fixed
by that direction.
(5) Where the Court makes an interim care order or interim supervision order, it may give such
directions, if any, as it considers appropriate with regard to the medical examination, including
psychiatric examination, or other assessment of the child, but if the child has sufficient understanding to
make an informal decision he may refuse to submit to the examination or other assessment.
(6) A direction under subsection (5) of this section may provide that there shall be‐
(a) 	no examination or assessment; or
(b) 	no examination or assessment unless the Court directs otherwise.
(7) A direction under subsection (5) of this section may be‐
(a) 	given when the interim care order or interim supervision order is made or at any time
while it is in force; and
(b) 	varied at any time on the application of any person falling within any class of persons
prescribed by Rules or Court for the purposes or this subsection.
(8) Where the Court makes an order under or by virtue of this section it shall, in determining the
period for which the order is to be in force, consider whether any party who was, or might have been
opposed to the making of the order was in a position to argue his case against the order in full.
(9) The provisions set out in paragraphs 4 and 5 of the Second Schedule to this Act shall not
apply in relation to an interim supervision order.
61. 	Discharge and variation, etc., of care orders and supervision orders
(1) The Court may vary or discharge a care order on the application of‐
(a) 	a person who has parental responsibility for the child; or
(b) 	the child himself ; or
(c) 	The state Government or appropriate authority designated by the order.

-- 55 of 265 --

(2) The Court may vary or discharge a supervision order on the application of ‐
(a) 	a person who has parental responsibility for the child;
(b) 	the child himself; or
(c) 	the supervisor.
(3) On the application of a person who is not entitled to apply for the order to be discharged,
but who is a person with whom the child is living, the Court may vary a supervision order in so far as it
imposes a requirement which affects that person.
(4) Where a care order is in force, the Court may, on the application of any person entitled to
apply for the order to be discharged, substitute a supervision order for the care order.
(5) When the Court is considering whether to substitute one order for another under subsection
4) of this section, any provision of this Act which would otherwise require section 52 (2) of this Act to be
satisfied, at the time when proposed order is substituted or made, shall be disregarded.
(6) The making of a residence order with respect to a child who is the subject of a care order
discharges the care order.
62. 	Orders pending appeals in cases relating to care or supervision orders
(1) Where the Court dismisses an application for a care order in respect of a child who is also the
subject of an interim care order, the Court may make a care order with respect to the child to have
effect subject to such directions, if any, as the Court may deem fit to include in the order.
(2) Where the court dismisses an application for a care order or supervision order in respect of a
child who is also the subject of an interim supervision order, the Court may make a supervision order
with respect to the Child to have effect subject to such directions, if any, as the court may deem fit to
include in the order.
(3) Where a Court grants an application to discharge a care order or supervision order, it may
order that ‐
(a) 	Its decision is not to have effect; or
(b) 	the care order or supervision order is to continue to have effect subject to such
directions as the Court may deem fit to include in the order.
(4) An Order made under this section shall only have effect for such period, not exceeding the
appeal period, as may be specified in the order.
(5) Where –
(a) 	an appeal is made against any decision of a Court under this section; or

-- 56 of 265 --

(b) 	an application is made to the appellate Court in connection with a proposed appeal
against that decision,
the appellate Court may extend the period for which the order in question is to have effect, but not so
as to extend It beyond the end of the appeal period.
(6) For the purposes of this section. the appeal period includes‐
(a) 	the period between the making of the decision against which the appeal is made and
the determination of the appeal ; and
(b) 	the period during which an appeal may be made against the decision.
PART VII
Provisions for use of Scientific Tests in Determining Paternity or Maternity, etc
63. 	Power of Court to require use of scientific tests
(1) In any civil proceeding in which the paternity or maternity of a person falls to be determined
by the Court hearing the proceedings, the Court may, on an application by a party to the proceedings,
give a direction for –
(a) 	the use of scientific tests, including blood tests and Deoxyribonucleic Acid tests, to
ascertain whether the tests show that a party to the proceedings is or is not the father
or mother of that person: and
(b) 	for the taking, within a period to be specified in the direction, of blood or other samples
from that person, the mother of that person, the father of that person and any party
alleged to be the father or mother of that person or from any two of those persons.
(2) The Court may at any time revoke or vary a direction previously given by it under subsection
(1) of this section.
(3) Where‐
(a) 	an application is made for a direction under this section; and
(b) 	the person whose paternity or maternity is in issue is under the age of eighteen when
the application is made, the application shall specify who is to carry out the tests.
(4) In the case of a direction made on an application to which subsection (3) of this section
applies the Court‐ .
(a) 	shall specify that the person who is to carry out the test is the person specified in the
application; or

-- 57 of 265 --

(b) 	may, where the Court considers that it would be inappropriate to specify the person
referred to in paragraph (a) of this subsection, because specifying that person would be
contrary to any provision of regulations made under section 65 of this Act or for any
other reason, decline to give the direction applied for.
(5) The person responsible for carrying out blood tests taken for the purpose of giving effect to a
direction under this section shall make, to the Court which gave the direction, a report in which he shall
state‐
(a) 	the result of the tests;
(b) 	whether the party to whom the report relates is or is not indicated by the results as the
father or mother of the person whose paternity or maternity, as the case may be, is to
be determined; and
(c) 	if the party is so indicated, the value, if any, of the results in determining whether that
party is actually the father or mother of that person.
(6) The report made under subsection (5) of this section shall be‐
(a) 	received by the Court as evidence in the proceedings of the matters stated in the report
; and
(b) 	in the form prescribed by regulations made under section 65 of this Act.
(7) Where a report has been made to the Court under subsection (5) of this section, any party to
the proceedings may, with the leave of the Court, or shall, if the Court so directs, obtain from the person
who made the report a written statement explaining or amplifying any statement made in the report,
and that statement shall be deemed for the purposes of this section, except subsection (5) (b) of this
section, to form part of the report made to the Court.
(8) Where a direction is given under this section in any proceedings, a party to the proceedings,
shall not, unless the Court otherwise directs, be entitled to call as a witness‐
(a) 	the person who carried out the tests taken for the purpose of giving effect to the
direction; or
(b) 	any person who did anything necessary for the purpose of enabling those tests to be
carried out, unless within fourteen days after receiving a copy of the report that party
serves notice on the other parties to the proceedings or on such of those other parties
as the Court may direct, of his intention to call that person, and where a person is called
as a witness the party who called the person shall be entitled to cross‐examine that
person.

-- 58 of 265 --

(9) Where a direction is given under this section, the party on whose application the direction is
given shall pay the cost of taking and testing blood or other samples for the purpose of giving effect to
the direction, including any expenses reasonably incurred by any person‐
(a) 	in taking any step required of the person for the purpose; and .
(b) 	in making a report to the Court under this section, but the amount paid shall be treated
as costs incurred by the party in the proceedings.
64. 	Consents, etc., required for taking scientific samples
(1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3) and (4) of this section, scientific sample which is
required to be taken from any person for the purpose of giving effect to a direction under section 63 of
this Act shall not be taken from that person except with his consent.
(2) The consent of a child who has attained the age of sixteen years to the taking from himself of
a scientific sample shall be as effective as it would be if he had attained the age of majority and where a
child has by a virtue of this subsection given an effective consent to the taking of scientific sample, it
shall not be necessary to obtain any consent for it from any other person.
(3) A scientific sample may be taken from a child under the age of sixteen years, not being a
child as is referred to in subsection (4) of this section, if the person who had the care and control of the
child consents.
(4) A scientific sample may be taken from a child who‐
(a) 	is suffering from mental disorder within the meaning of any relevant law in Nigeria; and
(b) 	is incapable of understanding the nature and purpose of the scientific tests, if the
person who has the care and control of the child consents and the medical practitioner
in whose care he is has certified that the taking of the scientific sample from the child
shall not be prejudicial to his proper care and treatment.
(5) The provisions of this section are without prejudice to the provisions of section 66 of this Act.
65. 	Power of Minister to provide for manner of giving effect to directions for use of scientific tests
The Minister may by regulations make provisions as to the manner of giving effect to directions
given under section 63 of this Act and, in particular, the regulations may‐
(a) 	provide that scientific samples shall not be taken except by such medical practitioners as
may be appointed by the Minister;
(b) 	regulate the taking, identification and transporting of the scientific samples; .

-- 59 of 265 --

c) 	require the production, at the time when a scientific sample is to be taken, of such
evidence as to the identity of the person from whom it is to be taken as may be
prescribed by the regulations;
(d) 	require any person from whom a scientific sample is to be taken, or, in such cases as
may be prescribed by the regulations, such other person as may be so prescribed, to
state in writing whether he or the person from whom the sample is to be taken, as the
case may be, has during such period as may be specified in the regulations, suffered
from any such illness as may be so specified or received a transfusion of blood;
(e) 	provide that scientific tests shall not be carried out except by such persons, and at such
places, as may be appointed by the Minister;
(f) 	prescribe the scientific test to be carried out and the manner in which they are to be
carried out;
(g) 	regulate the charges that may be made for the taking and testing of the scientific
samples and for the making of a report to a Court under section 63 of this Act;
(h) 	make provision for securing that, so far as practicable the samples to be tested for the
purpose of giving effect to a direction under Section 63 of this Act are tested by the
same person;
(i) 	prescribe the form of the report to be made to a Court under section 63 of this Act.
66. 	Failure to comply with directions for taking of scientific tests
(1) Where the Court gives a direction under section 63 of this Act and a person fails to take any
step required of him for the purpose of giving effect to the direction, the Court may draw such
inferences, if any, from that facts as appear proper in the circumstances.
(2) Where, in any proceedings in which the paternity or maternity of a child falls lo be
determined by the Court hearing the proceedings, there is a presumption of law that the person is
legitimate then if‐
(a) 	a direction is given under section 63 or this Act in those proceedings; and
(b) 	a party who is claiming any relief in the proceedings and who for the purpose of
obtaining that relief is entitled to rely on the presumption fails lo lake any step required
of him for the purpose of giving effect to the direction, the Court may adjourn the
hearing for such period as it thinks fit to enable that party to take the step required.
(3) If at the end of the period referred to in subsection (2) of this section, the person fails
without reasonable cause to take the step required, the Court may, without prejudice to subsection (1)
of this section, dismiss his claim for relief notwithstanding the absence of evidence to rebut the
presumption.

-- 60 of 265 --

(4) Where a person named in a direction under section 63 of this Act fails to consent to the
taking of scientific sample from himself or from a child named in the direction of whom he has the care
and control, the person shall be deemed for the purposes of this section to have failed to take a step
required of him for the purpose of giving effect to the direction.
67. 	Penalty for impersonating another, etc., for purpose of providing scientific sample
If, for the purpose of providing scientific sample for a test required to give effect to a direction
under section 63 of this Act, a person impersonates another, or proffers a child knowing that it is not the
child named in the direction, that person commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding ten thousand Naira or imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both such line
and imprisonment.
PART VIII
Possession and Custody of Children
68. 	Acquisition of parental responsibilities
(1) Where the father and mother of a child were not married to each other at the time of the
birth of the child‐
(a) 	the Family Court established under section 153 of this Act may‐
(i) 	on the application of the father, order that he shall have parental responsibility
for the child; or
(ii) 	on the application of the mother, order that she shall have parental
responsibility for the child; or
(b) 	the father and mother may by agreement have joint parental responsibility for the child.
(2) No parental responsibility agreement shall have effect for the purposes of this Act, unless it
is made in the form and manner prescribed by regulations made by the Chief Justice of Nigeria under
this section.
(3) Subject to subsection (4) of this section, an order under Subsection (1) (a) of this section, or a
parental responsibility agreement, may only be brought to an end by an order of the Court made on the
application‐
(a) of a person who has parental responsibility for the child; or
(b) of the child himself, with leave of the Court.
(4) The Court may only grant leave under Subsection (3) (b) of this section if it is satisfied that
the child has sufficient understanding to make the proposed application.

-- 61 of 265 --

(5) Where the court makes a residence order in favour of the father or the mother of a child it
shall, if the father or mother would not otherwise have parental responsibility for the child, also make
an order under subsection (i) of this section giving the father or mother that responsibility.
(6) Where the Court makes a residence order in favour of a person who is not the parent or
guardian of the child concerned, the person shall have parental responsibility for the child while the
residence order remains in force.
(7) Where a person has parental responsibility for a child as a result of subsection (5) of this
section, he shall not have the right to‐
(a) 	refuse to consent, to the making of an, application in respect of the child under Part XII
of this Act or,
(b) 	agree, or refuse to agree to the making of an adoption order, or any other order under
Part XII of this Act with respect lo the child ; or
(c) 	appoint a guardian for the child.
(8) Where subsection (5) of this section requires the Court to make an order under subsection
(1) of this section in respect of the father or mother of a child; the court shall not bring that order to an
end at any time while the residence order concerned remains in force
(9) The fact that a person has, or does not have parental responsibility for a child shall not affect
(a) 	any obligation which he may have in relation to the child including a statutory duty to
maintain, the child; or
(b) 	any right which, in the event of the death of the child, he or any other person may have
in relation to the property of the child.
(10) A person who does not have parental responsibility for a particular child but has care of the
child may, subject to the provisions of this Act, do what is reasonable in all the circumstances of the case
for the purpose of safeguarding or promoting the welfare of the child.
69. 	Power of the Court to make order in respect to custody or rights of access to a child
(1) The Court may‐
(a) 	on the application of the father or mother of a child make such order as it may deem fit
with respect to the custody of the child and the right of access to the child of either
parent, having regard to‐
(i) 	the welfare of the child and the conduct of the parent; and
(ii) 	the wishes of the mother and Father of the child,

-- 62 of 265 --

(b) 	alter, vary or discharge an order made under paragraph (a) of this subsection on the
application of‐
(i) 	the father or mother of the child, or
(ii) 	the guardian of the child, after the death of the rather or mother of the child;
and
(c) 	in every case, make such order with respect to costs as it may think just.
(2) The power of the Court under subsection (1) of this section to make an order as to the
custody or a child and the right of access to the child may be exercised notwithstanding that the mother
of the child is at that time not residing with the father of the child.
(3) Where the Court makes an order under subsection (1) of this section giving the custody of
the child to the mother the Court may further order that the father shall pay to the mother towards the
maintenance of the child such weekly or other periodical sum as the Court, may, having regard to the
means of the father think reasonable.
(4) Where the Court makes an order under Subsection (1) or this section giving custody of child
to the father the Court may further order that the mother shall pay to the father towards the
maintenance of the child such weekly or other periodical sum as the Court, may, having regard to the
means of the mother think reasonable.
(5) Subject to this section; no order whether for custody or maintenance shall be enforceable
and no liability thereunder shall accrue while the mother of the, child resides with the father, and any
such order shall cease to have effect if for a period of three months after it is made, the mother of the
child continues to reside with the father.
(6) An order made under this section may, on the application of the father or mother of the
child, be varied or discharged by a subsequent order.
70. 	Orders as to custody
No agreement contained in any separation deed made between the father and mother of a child
shall, be invalid by reason only of its providing that the father of the child gives up the custody or control
of the child to the mother.
71. 	Validity of custody agreed to in separation deeds
Where in any proceedings before a Court the custody or upbringing of a child or the
administration of any property belonging to or held in trust for a child, or the application of the income
thereof, is in question, the Court shall, in deciding that question, regard the welfare or the child as the
first and paramount consideration
72. 	Principal on which questions relating to custody, upbringing, etc., of child is to be decided

-- 63 of 265 --

Where the parent of a child has ‐
(a) 	abandoned or deserted the child; or
(b) 	allowed the child to be brought up by another person at the expense of that other
person, for such a length of time and under such circumstances as to satisfy the Court
that the parent was unmindful of his parental responsibilities,
the Court shall not make an order for the child to be delivered to the parent unless the parent satisfies
the Court that, having regard to the welfare of the child, the parent is a fit and proper person to have
the custody of the child.
73. 	Court to have regard to conduct of parent
Where the parent of a child applies to the Court for a writ or an order for the production of a
child, and the Court is of the opinion that the parent‐
(a) 	has abandoned or deserted the child; or
(b) 	had otherwise so conducted himself that the Court should refuse to enforce his right to
the custody of the child, the Court may, in its discretion, decline to issue the writ or
make the order.
74. 	Power of Court as to production of child
If at the time of the application for a writ or an order for the production of a child the child is
being brought up by another peon, the Court may, in it discretion, if it orders that the child be given up
to the parent, further order that the parent pays to that other person the whole of the costs properly
incurred in bringing up the child, or such portion of the costs as seems to the Court to be just and
reasonable, having regard to the circumstances of the case.
75. 	Power of Court to consult child’s wishes
Nothing contained in sections 72, 73 ,and 74 of this Act interferes with, or affects, power of the
Court to consult the wishes of the child in considering what order ought to be made under section 74, of
this Act or diminishes the right which any child, has to exercise on his own free choice,
76. 	Power of Court to child’s religious education
The Court may, on an application by a person for the production or custody of a child if it is of
the opinion‐
(a) 	that the parent ought not to have the custody of the child; and
(b) 	that the child is being brought up in a different religion other than that in which the
parent has brought the child up,

-- 64 of 265 --

make such order as it may deem fit to ensure that child is brought up in the religion in which the parent
requires the child to be brought up.
77. 	Enforcement of order for payment of money by attachment of income
Where the Court makes an order for the payment of money in pursuance of this Act, the Court
shall, in addition to any other powers for enforcing compliance with the order, have power, in any case
where pension or income, which is capable of being attached, is payable to the person against whom
the order is made, after giving the person by whom the pension or income is payable an opportunity of
being heard, order that such part of the pension or income as the court may deem fit be attached for
the payment of any money under this Act,
78. 	Notice of change of address by person ordered to pay money
A person who for the time being is under an obligation to make payment in pursuance of an
order for the payment of money under this Act shall give notice of any change in his address to the
person if any as may be specified in the order.
79. 	Power of the Minister to make orders, etc., as to custody of children
(1) The Minister may, by order, notwithstanding any customary law to the contrary prohibiting
(a) 	the giving or acquiring of the custody, possession, control or guardianship of a child; or
(b) 	the removal of a child from any part of a State.
(2) Where an order is made by the Minister in pursuance of subsection (i) of this section, no
person shall give or acquire the custody, possession or control of or remove a child from any part of the
State specified in the order except in accordance with rules made by the Minister and such rules may be
in general or in respect of any particular part of a State.
(3) An appeal from the order of the Minister shall lie to the appropriate level of the Court.
80. 	Prohibition against acquiring custody, etc., of child for the purpose of dealing in the child.
(1) No person shall hire, give or acquire the custody, Possession, control or guardianship of a
child whether or not for pecuniary or other benefit in circumstances that it may reasonably be inferred
that the child has been hired, sold or bartered, or that by reason of the hiring, giving or acquiring, the
child may reasonably be inferred to be placed in any danger, whatsoever.
(2) In any prosecution for the contravention of Subsection (i) of this section, where it is proved
that the custody, possession, control or guardianship of a child has been given to or acquired by a
person other than a person who is a member of the family of the child, it shall be presumed by the Court
that the child has been given or acquired in contravention of the provisions of Subsection (1) of this
section.

-- 65 of 265 --

(3) It shall be a defence to this section to prove that the child concerned was given or acquired
in accordance with customary law, provided that the customary law is not repugnant to natural justice,
morality or humanity or inconsistent with any written law
81. 	Penalties for contravening sections 79 and 80
A person who contravenes the provisions of Sections 79 and 80 of this Act or of any rules under
those sections commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of ten thousand Naira or
imprisonment for a term of one year or to both such fine and imprisonment.
PART IX
Guardianship
82. 	Parental responsibility of a guardian
(1) Except as provided under section 69 of this Act, a person appointed a guardian under this
Part of this Act shall have parental responsibility for the child.
(2) A person appointed as guardian ad litem under Section 90 of this Act shall be a guardian
only for the purposes of representing the child and his interest in certain proceedings, but shall
otherwise have no parental responsibility for the child.
83. 	Guardianship of a child
(1) The parents of a child shall have guardianship of the child and, in the event of the death of a
parent, the surviving parent shall be the guardian of the child.
(2) Where the parents of a child are not fit to be guardians of a child jointly or severally the
Court , shall, on application of a member of the family or an appropriate authority appoint a person to
be a joint guardian with the parent or parents of the child.
(3) A surviving parent who has guardianship of a child may, by deed, appoint a guardian for the
child in the event of the death of that parent.
(4) A single parent may by deed, appoint a person to be the guardian of the child upon the death
of that single parent.
(5) Where a guardian is appointed to act jointly with a parent or parents of a child under
subsection (2) of this section and the guardian so appointed considers the parents unfit to have the
custody of the child, the guardian may apply to the Court, and the Court may make‐
(a) 	an order that the guardian be the sole guardian of the child; and
(b) 	such order regarding the custody and right of access of the parents to the child as the
Court may think fit, having regard to the welfare of the child.

-- 66 of 265 --

(6) The Court may under Subsection (2) of this section, order that a parent or parents of a child
make a payment to a joint guardian towards the maintenance of the child.
84. 	Order for guardianship of a child
(1) Where an application for the guardianship of child is made to the Court by a person, the
court may, by order, appoint that person to be the guardian of a child if‐
(a) 	the child has no parent with parental responsibility for him ; or
(b) 	a residence order has been made in respect to the child in favour of a parent o guardian
of the child who has died while the order was in force.
(2) The power conferred under subsection (1) of this section may also be exercised in any family
proceedings if the Court considers that the order should be made notwithstanding that no application
was made for it.
(3) A guardian of a child may, by deed, appoint another person to be the guardian of the child in
the event of his death.
(4) An appointment made by a will which is not signed by the testator, shall have effect only if it
is signed at the direction of the testator.
85. 	Consent of a person appointed as a guardian
The consent of a person appointed as a guardian is necessary for the appointment to have
effect.
86. 	Revocation of guardianship
The appointment of a guardian under sections 85 and 90 of this Act may be brought to an end at
any time by an order of the Court‐
(a) 	on the application of a natural parent or any person who has parental responsibility for
the child;
(b) 	on the application of the child concerned, with leave of the Court;
(c) 	in any family proceedings, if the Court considers that it should be brought to an end
notwithstanding that no application, has been made; or
(d) 	on the application of an appropriate authority.
87. 	Power of a guardian over estate of a child
A guardian under this Act shall have all such powers over the estate, as the case may be, of a
child as a guardian appointed by will or otherwise by virtue of the rules of common law, equity, or
appropriate personal law.

-- 67 of 265 --

88. 	Disputes between joint guardians
Where two or more persons act as joint guardians of a child and they are unable to agree on any
question affecting the welfare of the child, any of them may apply to the Court for its direction, and the
court may make an order regarding the question in dispute.
89. 	Appointment of guardian ad litem
(1) The Court may, for the purpose of any specified proceedings, appoint a guardian ad litem for
the child concerned to safeguard the interests of the child, unless it is satisfied that it is not necessary, to
do so.
(2) The guardian ad litem shall‐
(a) 	be appointed in accordance with the Rules of Court ; and
(b) 	be under a duty to safeguard the interests of the child in the manner prescribed by
those rules.
(3) Where‐
(a) 	the child concerned is not represented by a legal practitioner; and
(b) 	any of the conditions mentioned in Subsection (4) of this section is satisfied, the Court
may appoint a legal practitioner to represent the child.
(4) 	The conditions under which an appointment may be made under Subsection (3) of this
section are that ‐
(a) 	no guardian ad litem has been appointed for the child;
(b) 	the child has sufficient understanding to instruct a legal practitioner and wishes to do
so;
(c) 	it appears to the Court that it would be in the best interest of the child for him to be
represented by a legal practitioner.
(5) A legal practitioner appointed under or by virtue of this section shall represent the child in
accordance with the Rules of Court.
(6) Notwithstanding any enactment or rules of law to the contrary, the Court may take account
of‐
(a) 	any statement contained in a report made by a guardian ad litem who is appointed
under this section for the purpose of the proceedings in question; and

-- 68 of 265 --

(b) 	any evidence given in respect of the matters referred to in the report, in so far as the
statement or evidence is, in the opinion of the Court, ‐relevant to the question which
the Court is considering.
90. 	Establishment of panels of persons from which guardians ad litem may be appointed
(1) The Minister my by regulations provide for the establishment of panels of persons from
which guardians ad litem appointed under this section shall be selected.
(2) The regulations may, in particular, make provisions‐
(a) 	as to the constitution, administration and procedures of the panels;
(b) 	requiring two or more specified Local Governments to make arrangements for the joint
management of a panel;
(c) 	for the defrayment by the State Government of expenses incurred by members of
panels;
(d) 	for the payment by the State Government of fees and allowances to members of panels;
(e) 	as to the qualifications for membership of a panel;
(f) 	as to the training to be given to members of the panels;
(g) 	as to the co‐operation required of specified Local Governments in the provision of
panels in specified areas; and
(h) 	for monitoring the work of guardians ad litem.
(3) Rules of Court may make provisions as to the‐
(a) 	assistance which a guardian ad litem may be required by the Court to give to it;
(b) 	consideration to be given by a guardian ad litem, where an order of a specified kind has
been made in the proceedings in question, as to whether to apply for the variation or
discharge of the order;
(c) 	participation of guardians ad litem in any review, of the kind specified in the Rules of
court, conducted by the Court.
91. 	Right of guardian ad litem to have access to records
(1) Where a person has been appointed as a guardian ad litem under this Act, he shall have the
right at all reasonable times to examine and take a copy of‐

-- 69 of 265 --

(a) 	any record by the State Government or the appropriate authority which was compiled in
connection with the making, or proposed making, by any person of any application
under this Act with respect to the child concerned; or ,
(b) 	any other record held by the State Government or the appropriate authority which was
compiled in connection with any function which have been referred to their social
service committee, so far as those records relate to that child.
(2) Where a guardian ad litem takes a copy of a record which he is entitled to examine under
this section, that copy Of any part of it shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any enactment
or rules, be admissible as evidence of any matter referred to in any‐
(a) 	report which he makes to the Court in the proceedings in question; or (b) evidence
which he gives in those proceedings.
92. 	Saving of existing orders and jurisdiction of the Court
(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, an order lawfully made by any court relating to
the guardianship or custody of a child before the commencement of this Act and which is in force, at the
time of the commencement of this Act and is not inconsistent with this Act shall continue in force, until
other provisions are made under and by virtue of this Act.
(2) Nothing in this Act shall restrict or affect the jurisdiction of a court to appoint or move
guardians by virtue of the High Court Laws or any other written law, until the Court has been established
in the relevant jurisdictions.
PART X
Wardship
93. 	Jurisdiction of Court.
The Court shall have jurisdiction in all matters pertaining to making a child a ward of Court.
94. 	Wardship order
(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, no child shall be made a ward of court except by
virtue of an order, to that effect, made by the Court.
(2) Where application is made for an order in respect of child, the child becomes a ward of court
on the making of the order Of on the expiration of such period as may be prescribed, unless within that
period another order is made in accordance with the new application.
(3) The Court may, either upon an application in that behalf or without an application, order
that a child who is for the time being a ward of court ceases to be a ward of court.
95. 	Maintenance of a ward of Court

-- 70 of 265 --

(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, the Court may make an order‐
(a) 	requiring either parent of a ward of court to pay to the other parent; or ,
(b) 	requiring either parent or both parents of a ward of court to pay to any other person
having the care and control of the ward,
such weekly or other periodical sums towards the maintenance and education of the ward as the Court
thinks reasonable having regard to the means of the person or persons making the payment.
(2) An order under Subsection (1) of this section may require such sums as are mentioned in
that subsection to continue to be paid in respect of any period but not beyond the date on which the,
ward of court attains the age of majority and such order if made may provide that any sum which is
payable for the benefit of that ward, having regard to the age of the child, be paid directly to that ward.
(3) No order shall be made under Subsection (1) (a) of this section, and no liability under order
made under this section, shall ace, at a time when the parent of the ward. of court or former ward of
court as the case may be, are residing together and If they so reside for a period of three months after
an order has been made, the order shall cease to have effect.
(4) The Court shall have power, from time to time, by an order under this section, to vary
discharge any previous order made under this section,
96. 	Committal of ward to care of appropriate authority, etc
(1) Where it appears to the Court that there are exceptional circumstances making it
impracticable or undesirable for a ward of court to be, or to continue to be under the care of either of
his parents or any other person, the Court may, if it thinks fit, make an order committing the care of the
ward to an appropriate authority,
(2) Where it appears to the Court that there are exceptional circumstances making it desirable
that a ward of court, not being a ward who in pursuance of an order under Subsection (1) of this section,
is in the care of an appropriate authority, should be under the supervision of an independent person,
the court may, with regard to such period as the court thinks fit, order that the ward be under the
supervision of a child development officer or other appropriate authority.
(3) The Court shall have power, from time to time by an order under this section to ; vary or
discharge any previous order made under this section. ‐ .
97. 	Matrimonial causes.
A Court hearing a matrimonial case in which a. child may be involved may direct that proper
proceedings be taken in the Court at the High Court level for making the child a ward of Court,
98. 	Dismissal of application for wardship

-- 71 of 265 --

Where the Court is of the opinion that an application for wardship is an abuse of the court
process, it shall dismiss the application forthwith
99. 	Rules for application for wardship
An application for wardship shall be made in compliance with the rules contained in Third