1. Establishment of the Council of Nigerian Mining Engineers and Geoscientists, etc.
(1) There is hereby established, for the purposes of regulating the standard of practice of mining
engineers and geoscientists, a body to be known as the Council of Nigerian Mining Engineers and
Geoscientists (in this Act referred to as "the Council") which shall be a body corporate with perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in its corporate name.

-- 3 of 27 --

(2) The Council shall be charged with the general duty of‐
(a) 	prescribing and enforcing the minimum standards of education and experience to be
obtained by persons qualified to practise as registered mining engineers and
geoscientists;
(b) 	prescribing and enforcing the code of conduct of registered mining engineers and
geoscientists;
(c) 	securing in accordance with this Act, the establishment and maintenance of a register of
persons entitled to practice as mining engineers and geoscientists and reviewing those
standards, from time to time, as circumstances may require;
(d) 	regulating and controlling the practice of mining engineering and geosciences in all its
aspects and ramifications;
(e) 	maintaining discipline in the profession in accordance with this Act; and
(f) 	performing such other functions which in its opinion are calculated to facilitate the
carrying on of its activities under this Act.
2. Membership of the Council
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Council shall consist of a Chairman to be appointed
by the President, on the recommendation of the Minister and the following other members, that is‐
(a) 	the Chief Executive of the Nigerian Mining Corporation;
(b) 	the Chief Executive of the National Steel Council;
(c) 	the Director of Mines in the Ministry of Solid Minerals Development;
(d) 	the Director of the Federal Geological Surveys of Nigeria;
(e) 	the President of the Nigerian Mining and Geosciences Society;
(f) 	one person to represent the Oil Companies in rotation for one term at a time;
(g) 	one person to represent the Department of Earth Sciences in the Universities in rotation
for one term at a time;
(h) 	one person to represent the Ministry of Power and Steel;
(i) 	one person to represent the Ministry of Petroleum Resources;
(j) 	one person to represent the Ministry of Science and Technology; and

-- 4 of 27 --

(k) 	three other persons to be appointed after consultation with the Nigerian Mining and
Geosciences Society.
(2) Except as otherwise provided in this Act, the members of the Council, other than ex‐officio
members, shall be appointed by the Minister on the recommendation of the bodies they represent, if
any.
(3) The provisions in the First Schedule to this Act shall have effect with respect to the
proceedings of the Council and the other matters therein mentioned.
[First Schedule.]
3. Tenure of office of members
(1) A person appointed as a member of the Council shall hold office for a term of four years and
shall be eligible for re‐appointment for only a further term of four years.
(2) The office of a member of the Council shall become vacant if‐
(a) 	he becomes bankrupt or makes arrangements with his creditors; or
(b) 	he is, as a result of physical or mental illness, unable to discharge his functions as a
member of the Council; or
(c) he is convicted of an offence involving dishonesty, fraud or moral turpitude.
(3) The Minister may by notice in writing revoke the appointment of a member if, in his opinion,
it is not in the interest of the Council that the member should continue in office.
PART II
Powers of the Council
4. Powers of the Council
(1) The Council shall have power‐
(a) 	to prescribe the amount to be paid as licence fees for registration as a mining engineer
and geoscientist;
(b) 	to raise and manage its own funds;
(c) 	to receive grants, loans, endowment, fees and other payments;
(d) 	to pay the members of the Council such allowances as the Minister may, from time to
time, approve;

-- 5 of 27 --

(e) 	subject to such terms and conditions as may be approved by the Council, to remunerate
its staff and agents.
(2) The Council shall not‐
(a) 	borrow money or dispose of any property except with the prior consent of the Minister;
or
(b ) 	pay remuneration (including pensions, allowances or other benefits) except with the
prior consent of the Minister; or
(c) 	pay expenses to any member or employee of the Councilor to any other person except
in accordance with scales approved by the Minister.
5. Power of the Minister to give directives to the Council
(1) The Minister may give the Council directives of a general character or relating to particular
matters (but not to any individual person or case) with regard to the exercise by the Council of its
functions and it shall be the duty of the Council to comply with the directives.
(2) Before giving a directive under subsection (1) of this section, the Minister shall give a copy of
the proposed directive to the Council and shall afford the Council an opportunity of making
representation to him with respect to the directives.
(3) The Minister may, after considering any representations made to him in pursuance of
subsection (2) of this section, give the directive either without modification or with such modifications
as appear to him to be appropriate, having regard to the representations made to him in pursuance of
that subsection.
PART III
Financial Provisions
6. Fund of the Council
(1) The Council shall establish and maintain a fund from which shall be defrayed all expenditure
incurred by the Council.
(2) There shall be paid and credited to the fund established in pursuance to subsection (1) of this
section‐
(a) 	such moneys as may be provided for the governance of the Council by way of grant or
loan or otherwise howsoever; and
(b) 	all other moneys that may accrue to the Council under this Act.
7. Accounts and Audit

-- 6 of 27 --

(1) The Council shall prepare and submit to the Minister, not later than 30 September of the
year in which this Act comes into force and in each subsequent year thereafter, an estimate of its
expenditure and income during the next succeeding year.
(2) The Council shall keep proper accounts in respect of each year and proper records in relation
to those accounts and shall cause the accounts to be audited within six months after the end of the year
to which the accounts relate by auditors appointed from the list and in accordance with the guidelines
supplied by the Auditor‐General of the Federation.
(3) The Council shall prepare and submit to the Minister, not later than twelve months after its
establishment and once in each year thereafter, a report on the activities of the Council during the last
preceding year and shall include in the report a copy of the audited accounts of the Council for that year
and of the auditor's report on the accounts.
PART IV
Staff of the Council
8. Registrar and other employees of the Council
(1) It shall be the duty of the Council to appoint a fit and proper person to be the Registrar for
the purposes of this Act.
(2) The Registrar shall, in addition to his other functions under this Act, be the Secretary to the
Council and shall on the instructions of the Chairman of the Councilor any Committee of the Council,
convene and keep minutes of the proceedings at all meetings of the Council and Committees thereof, as
the case may be.
(3) The Council may appoint such other persons to be employees of the Council, as the Council
may determine, to assist the Registrar in the exercise of his functions under this Act.
(4) The Council may, whenever the Registrar is absent or is for any other reason unable to
discharge the functions of his office, appoint an acting Registrar to discharge those functions.
(5) The Registrar and other employees of the Council shall hold office on such terms and
conditions as the Council may, with the approval of the Minister, determine.
PART V
Register, Registration, etc.
9. Preparation and maintenance of the register
(1) It shall be the duty of the Registrar to prepare and maintain, in accordance with rules made
by the Council under this section, a register of the names, addresses, approved qualifications, and of
such other particulars as may be specified, of all persons who are entitled, in accordance with the

-- 7 of 27 --

provisions of this Act, to be registered as mining engineers or geoscientists and who apply in the
prescribed manner to be so registered.
(2) The register shall consist of two parts of which one shall be in respect of fully registered
persons and the other in respect of provisionally registered persons.
(3) Subject to the following provisions of this section, the Council shall make rules with respect
to the form and keeping of the register and the making of entries therein, and in particular for‐
(a) 	regulating the making of applications for registration and providing for the evidence to
be produced in support of applications;
(b) 	providing for the notification to the Registrar, by the person to whom any registered
particulars relate, of any change in those particulars;
(c) 	authorising a registered person to have any qualification, which is registered in relation
to his name in addition to or, as he may elect, in substitution for any other qualification
so registered;
(d) 	specifying the fees to be paid to the Council in respect of the entry of names on the
register, and authorising the Registrar to refuse to enter a name on the register until any
fee specified for the entry has been paid;
(e) 	specifying anything falling to be specified under the foregoing provisions of this section,
but rules made for the purposes of paragraph (d) of this subsection shall not come into force until they
have been approved by the Minister and published in the Gazette.
(4) It shall be the duty of the Registrar‐
(a) 	to correct, in accordance with the direction of the Council, any entry which, in the
opinion of the Council, is an entry which was incorrectly made;
(b) 	to make, from time to time, any necessary alteration to the registered particulars of
registered persons;
(c) 	to remove from the part of the register which relates to provisionally registered
persons, all particulars relating to a person registered in the other part of the register;
and
(d) 	to remove from the relevant part of the register the name of any registered person who
has died, or as the case may be, has ceased to be entitled to be registered.
(5) If the Registrar‐
(a) 	sends by post to any registered person a registered letter addressed to him at his
address on the register enquiring whether the registered particulars relating to him are

-- 8 of 27 --

correct, and receives no reply to the letter within a period of three months from the
date of posting it; and
(b) 	upon the expiration of that period, sends in like manner to the person in question a
second similar letter and receives no reply to that letter within three months from the
date of posting it,
the Registrar may remove the particulars relating to the person in question from the relevant part of the
register; but the Council may, for any reason which seems to it to be sufficient, direct the Registrar to
restore to the appropriate part of the register any particulars removed therefrom under this subsection.
10. Publication of register and lists of corrections
(1) It shall be the duty of the Registrar‐
(a) 	to cause the register to be printed, published and put on sale to members of the public
not later than two years from the beginning of the year in which this Act comes into
force;
(b) 	in each year after that in which the register is first published under paragraph (a) of this
subsection, to cause to be printed, published and put on sale as aforesaid, either a
corrected edition of the register or a list of alterations made to the register, since it was
last printed; and
(c) 	to cause a print of each edition of the register and of each list of corrections to be deposited at
the principal offices of the Council, and it shall be the duty of the Council to keep the register
and lists so deposited open at all reasonable times for inspection by members of the public.
(2) A document purporting to be a print of an edition of a register published under this section
by authority of the Registrar in the current year, or documents purporting to be prints of an edition of a
register so published in the current year, shall (without prejudice to any other mode of proof) be
admissible in any proceedings as evidence that any person specified in the documents, or the
documents read together, as being registered is so registered and that any person not so specified is not
so registered.
11. Registration of mining engineers and geoscientists
(1) Subject to section 25 and to rules made under section 9 (3) of this Act, a person shall be
entitled to be fully registered as a mining engineer or geoscientist if‐
(a) 	he passes the qualifying examination for registration recognised or conducted by the
Council; and
(i) 	has not less than two years' post‐qualification experience in the relevant
profession; or

-- 9 of 27 --

(ii) 	has served in a recognised institution or organisation for the same period;
(b) 	he holds a qualification granted outside Nigeria and for the time being is accepted by
the Council and he is by law entitled to practise for all purposes as a mining engineer or
geoscientist in the country in which the qualification was granted and, if the Council so
requires, he satisfies the Council that he has had sufficient practical experience as a
mining engineer or geoscientist.
(2) Subject as aforesaid, a person shall also be entitled to be registered under this Act as a
mining engineer or geoscientist if‐
(a) 	he holds a certificate recognised by the Council and has not less than two years' post‐
qualification practical experience in the relevant profession or served for not less than
the same period under any recognised mining engineering or geosciences institution or
organisation; or
(b) 	he has passed an examination approved by the Council and has not less than two years'
post‐qualification practical experience in the relevant profession or served for not less
than the same period in a recognised mining engineering or geosciences institution or
organisation.
(3) An application for registration as a mining engineer or geoscientist shall be in the form
specified in the Second Schedule to this Act and on the payment of such fees as may be determined,
from time to time, by the Council.
[Second Schedule.]
(4) An applicant for registration under this Act shall satisfy the Council that he‐
(a) 	is of good character;
(b) 	has attained the age of twenty‐one years;
(c) 	has not been convicted in Nigeria or elsewhere of any criminal offence; and
(d) 	is a current member of the Nigerian Mining and Geosciences Society.
(5) A person shall be entitled to be registered provisionally under this Act if‐
(a) 	he holds a certificate recognised by the Council; or
(b) 	he has passed an examination conducted or approved by the Council, and has not had
two years' post‐qualification practical experience in the profession or served for less than the same
period in a recognised mining engineering or geosciences institution or organisation.
(6) Any entry made in the register, under subsection (5) of this section, shall show that the
registration is provisional and no entry so made shall be converted to full registration without the

-- 10 of 27 --

consent of the Council signified in writing in that behalf.
(7) The Council shall, from time to time, publish in the Gazette particulars of the qualifications
for the time being accepted for registration under this Act.
(8) The Council shall cause any person registered as a mining engineer or geoscientist to be
issued a certificate of registration as specified in the Third Schedule to this Act.
[Third Schedule.]
12. Temporary registration
(1) Where a person satisfies the Council‐
(a) 	that he has been selected for employment for a specified period in a capacity in which a
registered person under this Act would normally be employed and that he is or intends
to be in Nigeria temporarily for the purposes of serving for that period in the
employment in question;
(b) 	that he holds or has passed examinations necessary for obtaining some qualifications
granted outside Nigeria which is for the time being accepted by the Council for the
purpose of this section as respects the capacity in which, if employed, he is to serve;
and
(c) 	he pays any fees prescribed for registration, the Council may, if it thinks fit, give a direction that
the person shall be temporarily registered.
(2) The temporary registration of a person shall continue only while he is in such employment as
is mentioned in subsection (1) (a) of this section and shall cease‐
(a) 	on the termination of the period of employment specified to the Council under that
subsection; or
(b) 	on the termination of the said employment before the end of the period,
whichever first occurs, but nothing in this subsection shall preclude the Council from giving a further
direction under subsection (1) of this section in respect of a special period whose commencement
coincides with the termination of another such period.
(3) A person who is temporarily registered shall in relation to the employment mentioned under
subsection (1) (a) of this section, and to things done or omitted to be done in the course of that
employment, be deemed to be fully registered but in respect of other matters to be treated as not so
registered.
(4) If there is doubt as to whether a person's employment has been terminated, the decision of
the Council shall be conclusive for purposes of subsection (2) of this section.

-- 11 of 27 --

(5) The Registrar, as directed from time to time by the Council, shall remove from the register
the name of any person ceasing to be entitled to the benefit of this section.
PART VI
Training
13. Approval of courses
(1) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, the Council may approve for the purposes of section
11 of this Act‐
(a) 	any course of training which is intended for persons seeking to become members of the
profession under this Act and which the Council considers is designed to confer on
persons completing it sufficient knowledge and skill for the practice of the relevant
profession;
(b) 	any institution either in Nigeria or elsewhere, which the Council considers is properly
organised and equipped for conducting the whole or any part of the course of training
approved by the Council under this section; or
(c) 	any qualification which, as a result of examination taken in conjunction with the course
of training approved by the Council under this section, is granted to candidates reaching
a standard at the examination indicating, in the opinion of the Council, that they have
sufficient knowledge and skill to practise the relevant profession.
(2) The Council shall, from time to time, publish in the Gazette a list of qualifications relating to
the profession approved by it for the purposes of subsection (1) of this section.
(3) The Council may, if it thinks fit, withdraw any approval given under this section in respect of
any course, qualification or institution but, before withdrawing such an approval, the Council shall‐
(a) 	give notice that it proposes to do so to the person by whom the course is conducted or the
qualification is granted or the institution is controlled, as the case may be;
(b) 	afford each person an opportunity of making to the Council representations with regard to the
proposal; and
(c) 	take into consideration any representations made as respects the proposal in pursuance of
paragraph (b) of this subsection.
(4) As respects any period during which the approval of the Council under this section for a
course, institution or qualification is withdrawn, the course, institution or qualification shall not be
treated as approved under this section, but the withdrawal of such an approval shall not prejudice the
registration of any person who by virtue of the approval was registered or was eligible for registration
immediately before the approval was withdrawn.

-- 12 of 27 --

(5) The giving or withdrawal of an approval under this section shall have effect from such date,
after the execution of the instrument signifying the giving or withdrawal of the approval, as the Council
may specify in the instrument, and the Council shall‐
(a) 	as soon as may be, publish a copy of every instrument in the Gazette; and
(b) 	not later than seven days before its publication as aforesaid send a copy of the
instrument to the Minister.
14. Supervision of institution and examinations leading to approved qualifications
(1) It shall be the duty of the Council to keep itself informed of the nature of‐
(a) 	the instruction given at approved institutions to persons attending approved courses of
training; and
(b) 	the examinations as a result of which approved qualifications are granted,
and for the purposes of performing that duty, the Council may appoint, either from
among its own members or otherwise, persons to visit approved institutions or attend
such examinations.
(2) It shall be the duty of a person appointed under subsection (1) of this section to report to the
Council on‐
(a) 	the adequacy of the instruction given to persons attending approved courses of training
at institutions visited by him;
(b) 	the adequacy of the examinations attended by him; and
(c) 	any other matters relating to the institutions or examinations on which the Council
may, either generally or in a particular case, request him to report,
but no such person shall interfere with the giving of any instruction or the holding of any examination.
(3) On receiving a report made in pursuance of this section, the Council may, if it thinks fit, and
shall, if so required by the institution, send a copy of the report to the person appearing to the Council
to be in charge of the institution or responsible for the examination to which the report relates,
requesting that person to make an observation on the report to the Council within such period as may
be specified in the request, not being less than one month beginning with the date of the request.
15. Power of the Council to consider matters relating to training
(1) The Council may, if it thinks fit, consider and report to the Minister upon all matters relating
to the professional and technical training and other qualifications required for admission to the
professions under this Act and the conditions of practice after registration.

-- 13 of 27 --

(2) The Minister may require the Council to advise him on any matter referred to in subsection
(1) of this section.
PART VII
Privileges of registered persons and offences by unregistered persons
16. Certificate invalid if given by unregistered person
A certificate required by any written law from any class of person for whom a register is maintained
under this Act shall not be valid unless the person signing it is registered in accordance with this Act.
17. Appointment not to be held by unregistered person
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a person who is not registered in accordance with this
Act, shall not be entitled to hold any appointment in the public service of the Federation or of a State or
in any public or private establishment, body or institution, if the holding of such appointment involves
the performance by him in Nigeria of any act pertaining to the relevant profession for gain.
(2) Nothing in this section or in any other provision of this Part of this Act shall prevent a person
from holding any appointment referred to in subsection (1) of this section, while he is undergoing
training for the purpose of becoming qualified for registration under this Act under the supervision of
persons who are registered in accordance with this Act.
18. Prohibition of persons falsely professing to be a registered person
Any person, not being registered on any register established under section 9 of this Act, who holds
himself out to be so registered or uses any name, title, description or symbol calculated to lead any
person to infer that he is so registered, shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction for a first
offence to a fine of not less than one hundred naira or not more than two hundred naira or to
imprisonment for a term of six months or to both such fine and imprisonment, and on conviction for a
second or any subsequent offence to imprisonment for a term of not less than one year or more than
three years.
19. Recovery of fees
No remuneration shall be recoverable by legal proceedings in respect of any act pertaining to the
profession of a registered person if it is performed by a person who is prohibited from performing such
act for gain.
20. Offences
(1) If any person, for the purpose of procuring the registration of any name, qualification or
other matter‐
(a) 	makes a statement which he knows to be false in a material particular; or

-- 14 of 27 --

(b) 	recklessly makes a statement which is false in a material particular,
he shall be guilty of an offence.
(2) If the Registrar or any other person employed by the Council wilfully makes any falsification
in any matter relating to any register maintained under this Act, he shall be guilty of an offence.
(3) A person guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable‐
(a) 	on conviction in a court of inferior jurisdiction, to a fine not exceeding one hundred
naira; or
(b) 	on conviction in a High Court, to a fine not exceeding one thousand naira or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(4) Where an offence under this Part of this Act which has been committed by a body corporate
is proved to have been committed with the consent or connivance of or to be attributable to any neglect
on the part of any director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate or any
person purporting to act in any such capacity, he, as well as the body corporate, shall be deemed to be
guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be prosecuted and punished accordingly.
21. Burden of proof
In any criminal proceedings against any person upon a charge of having performed an act which
constitutes an offence if performed by an unregistered person, the person charged shall be deemed to
be unregistered unless he proves the contrary.
PART VIII
Discipline
22. Establishment of the Disciplinary Committee and the Investigating Panel
(1) There shall be established a Disciplinary Committee to be known as the Registered Mining
Engineers and Geoscientists Disciplinary Committee (in this Act referred to as "the Disciplinary
Committee") which shall be charged with the duty of considering and determining any case referred to it
by the Investigating Panel established by the following provisions of this Act.
(2) The Disciplinary Committee shall consist of the Chairman of the Council and four other
members of the Council holding office by virtue of paragraphs (a), (c) and (d) of section 2 (1) of this Act.
(3) There shall be established a body to be known as the Registered Mining Engineers and
Geoscientists Investigating Panel (hereafter in this Act referred to as "the Investigating Panel") which
shall be charged with the duty of‐
(a) 	conducting a preliminary investigation into any case where it is alleged that a person
registered has misbehaved in his capacity as a mining engineer or geoscientist or should

-- 15 of 27 --

for any other reason be the subject of proceedings before the Disciplinary Committee;
and
(b) 	deciding whether the case should be referred to the Disciplinary Committee.
(4) The Investigating Panel shall be appointed by the Council and shall consist of five members of
the Council.
(5) The provisions of the Fourth Schedule to this Act shall, in so far as is applicable to the
Disciplinary Committee and Investigating Panel respectively, have effect with respect to those bodies.
[Fourth Schedule.]
23. Proceedings of the Disciplinary Committee
(1) At any meeting of the Disciplinary Committee three members shall form a quorum.
(2) The Chairman or, in his absence, such other person as may be determined by the Disciplinary
Committee shall preside at any meeting of the Disciplinary Committee.
(3) Any question proposed for decision by the Disciplinary Committee shall be determined by
the majority of the members present and voting at a meeting of the Disciplinary Committee at which a
quorum is present.
(4) At all meetings of the Disciplinary Committee, each member present shall have one vote on a
question proposed for decision by the Disciplinary Committee and, in the event of an equality of votes,
the Chairman shall have, in addition to a deliberative vote, a casting vote.
24. Penalties for unprofessional conduct
(1) Where‐
(a) 	a person registered under this Act is convicted by any court or tribunal in Nigeria or elsewhere
having power to award punishment for an offence (whether or not an offence punishable with
imprisonment) which, in the opinion of the Disciplinary Committee, is incompatible with the
status of such person; or
(b) 	a registered person is judged by the Disciplinary Committee to be guilty of infamous conduct in
a professional respect; or
(c) 	the Disciplinary Committee is satisfied that the name of any person has been fraudulently
registered,
the Disciplinary Committee may give any of the directions mentioned in subsection (2) of this section.
(2) The Disciplinary Committee may give a direction under subsection (1) of this section‐
(a) 	ordering the Registrar to strike the person's name of the relevant part of the register;

-- 16 of 27 --

(b) 	suspending that person from practice for such period as may be specified in the
direction;
(c) 	reprimanding that person;
(d) 	ordering that person to pay to the Council any costs of and incidental to the
proceedings incurred by the Council;
(e) 	cautioning that person and postponing for a period not exceeding one year any further
action against him on one or more conditions as to his conduct during that period,
and any such direction may, where appropriate, include provisions requiring the refund of moneys paid
or the handing over of documents or any other thing, as the case may require.
(3) In any inquiry under this section, any finding of fact which is shown to have been made in‐
(a) 	any criminal proceedings in a court in Nigeria; or
(b) 	any civil proceedings in a court in Nigeria,
shall be conclusive evidence of the fact found.
(4) If, after due inquiry, the Disciplinary Committee is satisfied that, during the period of any
postponement under paragraph (e) of subsection (2) of this section, a person has not complied with the
conditions imposed thereunder, the Disciplinary Committee may, if it thinks fit, impose anyone or more
of the penalties mentioned in paragraph (a), (b), (c), or (d) of that subsection.
(5) A certificate under the hand of the chairman that any costs have been ordered to be paid by
a person under this section of this Act shall be conclusive evidence thereof.
25. Restoration of names to the register
(1) Where the name of a person has been struck off from the register in pursuance of a direction
given under section 24 of this Act, the Disciplinary Committee may, if it thinks fit, at any time direct the
restoration of his name to the register.
(2) An application for the restoration of a name to a register under subsection (1) of this section
shall not be made to the Disciplinary Committee before the expiration of such period from the date of
the striking off (and where he has made such an application, from the date of his last application) as may
be specified in the direction.
(3) There shall be payable to the Council by any person on the restoration of his name to a
register in pursuance of a direction given under this section, the like fees as would be payable by that
person on first becoming registered on that register.
26. Striking off entries from the register on grounds of fraud or error

-- 17 of 27 --

(1) If it is proved to the satisfaction of the Disciplinary Committee that any entry made in a
register has been fraudulently or incorrectly made, the Disciplinary Committee may direct that the entry
shall be struck off from the register.
(2) A person may be registered in pursuance of any provisions of this Act notwithstanding that
his name had been struck off in pursuance of a direction given under subsection (1) of this section, but if
it was so struck off on the ground of fraud, he shall not be registered, except if an application in that
behalf is made to the Disciplinary Committee and on any such application the Disciplinary Committee
may, if it thinks fit, direct that he shall not be registered or shall not be registered until the expiration of
such period as may be specified in the direction.
(3) Any reference in this Act to the striking off or the restoration to a register of the name of a
person shall be construed as including a reference to the striking off from or the restoration to the
register of any other registerable particulars relating to that person.
27. Appeal to the Federal High Court
(1) Where the Disciplinary Committee‐
(a) 	makes a finding and imposes a penalty on a registered person under section 24 of this
Act; or
(b) 	rejects an application for restoration of a name to a register under subsection (2) of
section 25 of this Act; or
(c) 	directs the striking off an entry from a register under subsection (1) of section 26 of this
Act, the Registrar shall give the person to whom the proceedings relate, notice in writing
thereof and such person may, within twenty‐eight days from the date of service on him
of the notice, appeal to the Federal High Court.
(2) On any appeal under this section, the Council shall be the respondent.
(3) No direction for the striking off of the name of a registered person from a register under
section 24 or 26 of this Act shall take effect, until the expiration of the time for appealing or if an appeal
is brought, until such time as the appeal is disposed of, withdrawn or struck out for want of prosecution,
as the case may be.
(4) The Federal High Court may, on an appeal under this section‐
(a) 	confirm, vary or set aside any finding of fact, penalty imposed or direction given by the
Disciplinary Committee; or
(b) 	confirm the rejection of the Disciplinary Committee of the application for restoration or
direct the restoration of the name to the register; or
(c) 	remit the matter to the Disciplinary Committee for further consideration; or

-- 18 of 27 --

(d) 	make such other order as to costs or otherwise as may to it seem just, but no
proceedings before the Disciplinary Committee shall be set aside by reason only of
informality in those proceedings which did not embarrass or prejudice the appellant.
PART IX
Supplementary
28. Regulations, etc.
Any power to make regulations, rules or orders conferred under this Act shall include‐
(a) 	the power to make provisions for such incidental and supplementary matters as the
authority making the instrument considers expedient for the purpose of the instrument;
and
(b) 	the power to make different provisions for different circumstances.
29. Interpretation
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires‐
"certificate of registration" means a certificate of registration issued under section 11 (8) of this
Act;
"Council" means the Council of Nigerian Mining Engineers or Geoscientists established under
section 1 of this Act;
"member" means a member of the Council and includes the Chairman;
Minister" means the Minister charged with the responsibility for matters relating to mines; and
"Ministry" shall be construed accordingly;
"profession" means the profession of mining engineering or geosciences, as the case may be;
"register" means the register maintained under section 9 of this Act and "registered" shall be
construed accordingly;
"Registrar" means the Registrar appointed under section 8 of this Act;
"student" means a person receiving basic training in the professions covered by this Act in an
approved training school.
30. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Council of Nigerian Mining Engineers and Geoscientists Act.

-- 19 of 27 --

__________________