1. Requests
(1) A request for the creation of a new State or boundary adjustment within the Federal
Republic of Nigeria shall be in writing and shall be submitted to either the President of the Senate or the
Speaker of the House of Representatives or the Clerk of the National Assembly.
(2) A request shall be deemed to be supported by at least two‐thirds majority of members
representing the area demanding the creation of a new State in‐
(a) 	the Senate and House of Representatives;
(b) 	the House of Assembly in respect of the area; and
(c) 	the local government councils in respect of the area,
only if those members append their signatures or right‐hand thumb impressions to the request. (3) The
request shall contain the following particulars‐
(a) 	the name of the proposed State;
(b) 	a full and clear description of the area covered by the request; and
(c) 	the names of all elected members for the time being of the local government councils,
House of Assembly, House of Representatives and the Senate representing the area

-- 2 of 9 --

covered by the request and supporting the impressions appended thereto directly
opposite their names.
(4) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, a request for the creation of a new State received
prior to the commencement of this Act and accepted by the National Assembly as having satisfied the
requirements of the Constitution shall be deemed to have been made in accordance with the provisions
of this Act.
2. Directions to Independent National Electoral Commission
(1) The National Assembly shall, where it is satisfied that a request so received has complied
with section 8 (1) (a) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999, direct the Independent
National Electoral Commission by resolution to conduct a referendum of the area (where the demand
for the creation of the new State originated) with respect to the said proposal.
[Cap. C23.]
(2) The proposal shall, within thirty days after it has been accepted by resolution of both Houses
of the National Assembly, be published in the Gazette.
(3) The Clerk to the National Assembly shall communicate the directives of the National
Assembly within thirty days to the Independent National Electoral Commission as prescribed in Form 1
and the manner prescribed in the Schedule to this Act.
[Form 1. Schedule.]
PART II
Referendum
3. Supervision of referendum
(1) When the Independent National Electoral Commission receives the direction aforesaid it
shall within three months therefrom, organise and supervise a referendum in the area demanding the
creation of a new State.
(2) The Independent National Electoral Commission shall make regulations with respect to the
general conduct and regulation of a referendum under the provisions of this Act.
4. Date and time of referendum
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the referendum shall be held on a day appointed by the
Independent National Electoral Commission by notice published in the Gazette and in any other news
media and the day so appointed (referred to as "the appointed day") shall not be before the expiration
of one month beginning with the day of the first publication of the notice.

-- 3 of 9 --

(2) Voting for the purposes of the referendum shall take place on the appointed day during such
hours as may be specified in the notice.
(3) For the purposes of the referendum, it shall be lawful to use the current register of voters in
existence at the time of such referendum.
5. Form of question at referendum
The sole matter on which a voter shall be invited to cast his vote at the referendum shall be the question
as to whether or not he agrees to the proposal to create the new State.
6. Independent National Electoral Commission to issue certificate
(1) After the referendum has been held and the result ascertained, the Chairman of the
Independent National Electoral Commission shall forthwith issue a certificate as prescribed in Form 2 in
the Schedule to this Act, certifying the result of the referendum to the Clerk of the National Assembly.
[Form 2. Schedule.]
(2) The Independent National Electoral Commission shall also forthwith cause the result of the
referendum to be published in the Gazette and in any other news media.
7. Jurisdiction of State High Court
(1) A State High Court shall have original jurisdiction to determine any question arising from or
in connection with the organisation, conduct or result of the referendum.
(2) For speedy disposal of such matters and any appeals arising therefrom, the Chief Justice of
Nigeria may make special rules of court for the exercise of the jurisdiction conferred by this section.
8. Expenses
Any expenses certified by the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission to be
expenses incurred in respect of any referendum conducted under this Act, shall be charged upon the
Consolidated Revenue Fund of the Federation.
PART III
Transmission of certificate of result
9. Transmission of certificate of results to States
(1) Upon receipt of the certificate of a result of the referendum from the Independent National
Electoral Commission and if the result shows that the proposal for the creation of the new State has
been approved by at least a two‐thirds majority of the people of the area who actually voted, then the
President of the Senate shall transmit a copy of the said certificate of result of the referendum issued by

-- 4 of 9 --

the Independent National Electoral Commission to the Speaker of every State House of Assembly in the
Federation who shall cause it to be laid before the House for its consideration.
(2) The House shall thereupon take a vote on a motion moved by any of the members thereof
for the approval of the said result of the referendum.
(3) The Clerk of each House of Assembly shall issue a certificate as prescribed in Form 3 in the
Schedule to this Act certifying the result of the votes taken on the motion and forthwith deliver or cause
to be delivered such certificate to the Clerk of the National Assembly who shall in turn submit same to
the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
[Form 3. Schedule.]
(4) If the certificate of the result of the voting on the said motion in the Houses of Assembly
shows that the motion has been approved by a simple majority of all the States of the Federation
supported by a simple majority of the members of the House of Assembly, a resolution may be
proposed by any member in each House of the National Assembly calling on the House to approve the
proposal for the creation of the new State.
(5) If the resolution is passed by two‐thirds majority of members of each House of the National
Assembly, the National Assembly shall proceed to enact a law creating the new State.
PART IV
Miscellaneous
10. Interpretation
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires‐
"Clerk of the National Assembly" means Clerk to the National Assembly within the meaning of
section 51 of the Constitution;
"Constitution" means Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999;
[Cap. C23.]
"Gazette" means the Federal Republic of Nigeria Official Gazette;
"local government council" means an elected local government council established in 1976 or
thereafter pursuant to section 7 of the Constitution;
"State" means a State of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
11. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Creation of States and Boundary Adjustments (Procedure) Act.

-- 5 of 9 --

____________________