1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Customs and Excise Management Act.
2. Interpretation
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires‐
"aerodrome" means any area of land or water designed, equipped, set apart or commonly used for
affording facilities for the landing and departure of aircraft;
"aircraft" includes all balloons (whether captive or free), kites, gliders, airships and flying
machines;
"approved route" has the meaning assigned by section 18;
"approved wharf" has the meaning assigned by section 14;

-- 11 of 188 --

"authorised methylator" means a person authorised to methylate spirits under subsection (1)
of section 104;
"beer" includes ale, porter, stout and any other description of beer and any liquor which is
made or sold as a description of beer or as a substitute for beer which on analysis of a sample thereof at
any time is found to contain more than one per cent (but not more than ten per cent) of pure alcohol,
but does not include fermented liquor of a kind (made elsewhere otherwise than upon the licensed
premises of a brewer for sale) which the Board accepts as a liquor usually made by local methods in or
about Nigeria;
[1968 No. 46.]
"Board" means the Board referred to under section 3;
"brewer" means a person holding an excise licence as such;
"claimant", in relation to proceedings for the condemnation of anything as being forfeited,
means a person claiming that the thing is not liable to forfeiture;
"cleared", in relation to goods, means removed, after release by the proper officer, in
pursuance of the purpose for which the goods were entered;
"coasting ship" has the meaning assigned by section 65;
"commander", in relation to an aircraft, includes any person having or taking the charge or
command of the aircraft;
"Comptroller‐General" means the Comptroller‐General of the Nigerian Customs Service;
"container" includes any bundle or package or any box, cask or other receptacle whatsoever;
"customs airport" has the meaning assigned by section 15;
"customs area" has the meaning assigned by section 20;
"customs laws" and "excise laws" mean those provisions of this Act and any other Act for the
time being in force relating to customs or, as the case may be, excise;
"customs port" has the meaning assigned by section 12;
"customs station" has the meaning assigned by section 18;
"drawback" means a refund of all or part of any duty of customs or excise authorised under this
Act in respect of goods exported or used in a manner or for a purpose prescribed as a condition of
drawback;
"drawback goods" means goods in the case of which a claim for drawback has been or is to be
made;

-- 12 of 188 --

"duty" includes any royalty or cess leviable by the Board by virtue of any enactment;
"enactment" includes an Act of the National Assembly;
"examination station" has the meaning assigned by section 17;
"excise trader" means any person carrying on a trade or business subject to any provision of the
excise laws, whether or not that trade or business is a trade or business for the carrying on of which any
excise licence is required;
"exporter", in relation to goods for exportation or for use as stores, includes the shipper of the
goods and any person performing in the case of an aircraft functions corresponding to those of a
shipper;
"factory", in relation to the manufacture of tobacco, means the premises in which such tobacco
is manufactured;
"goods" means all kinds of articles, produce wares, merchandise and livestock and includes
money stores, baggage and mail;
[1960 No. 50. 1972 No. 10.]
"Government warehouse" means any place provided by the Government and appointed by the
Board for the deposit of goods for the security thereof and of the duties chargeable thereon;
"gravity" and "original gravity" have the meanings assigned by section 114;
"importer", in relation to any goods at any time between their importation and the time when
they are cleared, includes any owner or other person for the time being possessed of or beneficially
interested in the goods;
"land" and "landing" in relation to aircraft include alighting on water;
"master", in relation to a ship, includes any person having or taking charge of or command of
the ship;
"Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibility for matters relating to Finance and
"Ministry" shall be construed accordingly;
[1992 No. 45.]
"officer" means any person employed in the Nigerian Customs Service, or for the time being
performing duties in relation to customs or excise;
"owner", in relation to any goods, includes any person who is for the time being entitled to
possession of the goods; and, in relation to a ship, aircraft or vehicle, includes the charterer, operator or
hirer;

-- 13 of 188 --

"per cent of pure alcohol" means the percentage of ethyl alcohol by volume at fifteen point five
six degrees Centigrade or sixty degrees Fahrenheit;
"perfect entry" means an entry made in accordance with section 27;
"place" includes any point or area on land or sea or inland waters;
"prohibition", in relation to goods, means any prohibition or restriction on the importation,
exportation or carriage coastwise of goods imposed by or under this or any other enactment; and
"prohibited" shall be construed accordingly;
"proper officer" means any officer whose right or duty it is to require the performance of, or to
perform, the act referred to;
"proprietor", in relation to any goods, includes any owner, importer, exporter, shipper or other
person for the time being possessed of or beneficially interested in those goods;
"ship" includes any boat, hovercraft or other vessel;
[1968 No. 46.]
"spirits" means ethyl alcohol and includes all liquors mixed with ethyl alcohol and all mixtures
compounded with or prepared from ethyl alcohol which on analysis of a sample thereof at any time is
found to contain not less than two point five per cent of pure alcohol, but does not include methylated
spirits or other denatured spirits, or wine, beer, cider, Perry or other fermented liquors which do not
contain more than twenty per centum of pure alcohol;
"spirits manufacturer" means a person holding an excise licence as such;
"stores" means goods for use in a ship or aircraft and includes fuel and spare parts and other
articles of equipment, whether or not for immediate use or fitting;
"tobacco manufacturer" means a person holding an excise licence as such;
"tons register" means the tons of a ship's net tonnage as ascertained and registered according
to the Tonnage Regulations of the Merchant Shipping Act, or, in the case of a ship which is not
registered under those Acts, ascertained in like manner as if it were to be so registered;
[Cap. M11.]
"transhipment", in relation to goods, means transhipment for re‐exportation;
"transit", in relation to goods, means transit through Nigeria;
"transit goods" means imported goods entered on importation for transit or transhipment;
"vehicle" includes a railway vehicle;

-- 14 of 188 --

"warehouse", except in the expression "Government warehouse", means a building licensed by
the Board under section 82 and "warehoused" and cognate expressions shall be construed accordingly;
"wine" includes any liquor made or sold as a description of wine or as a substitute for wine and
which on analysis of a sample thereof at any time is found to contain not more than twenty‐four point
five per cent of pure alcohol, but does not include palm wine or any other wine of a kind (produced
elsewhere than upon the licensed premises of a distiller for sale) which the Board accepts as produced
by local methods in or about Nigeria.
PART II
Administration
3. Establishment, constitution, and proceedings of the Board
(1) The Board referred to under this Act is the Board of Customs and Excise established by the
Nigerian Customs Service Board Act.
[1992 No. 45. Cap. N100.]
(2) The constitution, proceedings and functions of that Board are provided for under sections 2
and 3 of that Act.
4. Powers and duties of the Board
(1) The Board shall, subject to the general control of the Minister, be charged with the duty of
controlling and managing the administration of the customs and excise laws and shall collect the
revenues of customs and excise and account for them in such manner as may be directed.
(2) Any power conferred and any duty imposed upon the Board may be exercised or performed
by the Board or by an officer authorised generally or specifically in that behalf by the Board.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2) of this Act, the Board may, at any time and
at its discretion, reverse or otherwise modify any decision of any proper officer affecting any imported,
exported or excise goods, whether or not the discretion to make the decision was conferred on the
officer by the customs and excise laws or whether or not the officer was authorised to make the
decision; and the reversal or modification of the decision by the Board shall have effect as if it were the
original decision made in respect of the matter concerned.
5. Board to be subject to general control of Minister
(1) In the exercise of the powers and duties conferred upon the Board, the Board shall be
subject to the authority, direction and control of the Minister and any written direction, order or
instruction given by him after consultation with the Director shall be carried out by the Board:
Provided that the Minister shall not give any direction, order or instruction in respect of any
particular person which would have the effect of requiring the Board to increase or decrease any

-- 15 of 188 --

assessment of duty made or to be made or any relief given or to be given or to defer the collection of
any duty or judgment debt due, or which would have the effect of initiating, forbidding the initiation of,
withdrawing or altering the normal course of any proceedings, whether civil or criminal, relating either
to the recovery of any duty or to any offence under the customs and excise laws.
(2) In any proceedings, whether civil or criminal, under the customs and excise laws, any act,
matter or thing done by or with the authority of the Board in pursuance of the said laws shall not be
subject to challenge on the ground that such act, matter or thing was not or was not proved to be in
accordance with any direction, order or instruction given by the Minister.
6. Signification
Anything done or required to be done by the Board in pursuance of any of its powers or duties under
the customs and excise laws, may be signified under the hand of the Comptroller‐General or of an
officer who has been authorised by the Board for the purpose of this section.
7. Information and documents to be confidential
(1) Without prejudice to the provisions of any other Act concerning official secrets, all
information and documents supplied or produced in pursuance of any requirement of the customs and
excise laws shall be and shall be treated as confidential, and if any person who is or has been a member
of the Board or who is or has been employed in the Ministry communicates or attempts to communicate
any such information or the contents of any such document to any person except‐
[L.N. 139 of 1965.]
(a) 	for the purposes of the customs and excise laws; or
(b) 	as required by any other enactment; or
(c) 	as otherwise authorised by the Minister,
he shall be liable to a fine of two hundred naira or to imprisonment for six months, or to both.
(2) Any proceedings for an offence under this section may be taken by or in the name of the
Comptroller‐General but not by any other person, except with the consent of the Attorney‐General of
the Federation.
[1975 No. 41.]
(3) A person who is or has been a member of the Board or who is or has been employed in the
Ministry may, except with the consent of the Minister, be required to divulge to any court any such
information or to produce in any court any such document as is referred to in subsection (1) of this
section, except as may be necessary for the purpose of carrying into effect any provision of the customs
and excise laws or in order to institute a prosecution or other legal proceedings, or in the course of a
prosecution or other legal proceedings, under the customs and excise laws.

-- 16 of 188 --

8. Officers to have powers of police officers
For the purpose of carrying out or enforcing the provisions of the customs and excise laws, all officers
shall have the same powers, authorities and privileges as are given by law to police officers.
9. Hours of attendance
(1) The Board may, by notice in the Federal Gazette‐
(a) 	prescribe the hours between which offices of customs and excise are to be open or
officers are to be available for the performance of particular duties; and
(b) 	direct the form and manner in which a request for an extension of the hours prescribed
under paragraph (a) of this subsection shall be made to the proper officer and the fees
which shall be paid for any such extension granted.
(2) The proper officer may, in his discretion, grant or refuse any request for an extension of
hours under this section.
10. Unlawful assumption of character of officer
If, for the purpose of obtaining admission to any building or other place or to any ship, aircraft or
vehicle, or of doing or procuring to be done any act which he would not be entitled to do or procure to
be done of his own authority, or for any other unlawful purpose, any person, not being an officer,
assumes the name, designation or character of an officer, he shall, in addition to any other punishment
to which he may have rendered himself liable, be liable to a fine of one thousand naira or to
imprisonment for two years, or to both.
11. Obstruction of officers, etc.
If any person‐
(a) 	obstructs, hinders, molests or assaults any person duly engaged in the performance of
any duty or the exercise of any power imposed or conferred on him by the customs and
excise laws, or any person acting in his aid; or
(b) 	does anything which impedes or is intended to impede the carrying out of any search
for any thing liable to forfeiture under the customs and excise laws or the detention,
seizure or removal of any such thing; or
(c) 	rescues, damages or destroys any thing so liable to forfeiture or does any thing intended
to prevent the procuring or giving of evidence as to whether or not anything is so liable
to forfeiture; or
(d) 	prevents the arrest of any person by a person duly engaged or acting as aforesaid or
rescues any person so arrested,

-- 17 of 188 --

he shall be liable to a fine of one thousand naira or to imprisonment for two years, or to both.
PART III
Importation, exportation and carriage coastwise
Customs ports, customs airports, customs stations, etc.
12. Customs ports
(1) The President may by order designate any area in Nigeria specified in the order to be a place
of arrival or departure of ships by sea for customs purposes.
(2) Any area designated under this section is in this Act referred to as a "customs port".
(3) Any appointment of a port for the purposes of the customs laws in force immediately before
the commencement of this Act shall have effect as if it were a designation of a customs port made under
this section.
(4) Except as permitted in writing by the Board, the master of a ship entering Nigeria by sea
from any place outside Nigeria shall not cause or permit the ship to call at any place therein other than a
customs port, and any person importing or concerned in importing any goods by sea shall not bring the
goods into Nigeria at any place other than a customs port.
(5) Except as permitted in writing by the Board, a person shall not export or be concerned in
exporting by sea any goods from any place in Nigeria other than a customs port, and the master of a
ship shall not cause or permit the ship to depart on a voyage by sea to a place outside Nigeria from any
place in Nigeria other than a customs port, or, whilst the ship is engaged on such a voyage, to call at any
place in Nigeria other than a customs port.
(6) Subsections (4) and (5) of this Act shall not apply in relation to a ship entering or departing
from Nigeria which is compelled by accident, stress of weather or other unavoidable cause to call at a
place other than a customs port, but the master of any such ship‐
(a) 	shall immediately report the circumstances which caused the ship to call at such place
to an officer or police officer and on demand produce to him the documents relating to
the ship, its cargo and passengers;
(b) 	shall not without the consent of an officer or police officer permit any goods to be
unloaded, or any of the crew or passengers to land, from the ship;
(c) 	shall comply with any directions given by an officer or police officer with respect to any
such goods,
and no passenger or member of the crew shall without the consent of an officer or police officer land
from the ship:

-- 18 of 188 --

Provided that nothing in this subsection shall prohibit the landing or unloading of passengers ,
crew or goods from a ship where that landing or unloading is necessary for reasons of health, safety or
the preservation of life or property.
(7) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of this section shall be
liable to a fine of four hundred naira or to imprisonment for six months, or to both.
13. Provision of office accommodation for officers of the Board
The Nigerian Ports Authority shall in every area designated a customs port under section 12 of this Act,
provide office accommodation required by officers of the Board for the proper discharge of their
functions in the customs port.
[1972 No. 10.]
14. Approved wharves at customs ports
(1) The Board may, by notice in the Federal Gazette‐
(a) 	approve for such periods and subject to such conditions and restrictions as it sees fit,
places in any customs port for the loading and unloading of goods or of any class or
description of goods, and any place so approved is in this Act referred to as an
"approved wharf';
(b) 	at any time for reasonable cause, revoke or vary the terms of any approval given under
this section.
(2) Any appointment or allowance of a place at any customs port as an approved place of
unloading, an approved place of loading or a sufferance wharf in force immediately before the
commencement of this Act shall have effect as if it were an approval of that place as an approved wharf
under this section on the same terms as that appointment or allowance.
(3) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any conditions or restriction imposed
under this section shall be liable to a fine of two hundred naira.
15. Customs airports
(1) In this Act, the expression "customs airport" means an aerodrome in Nigeria for the time
being designated by order made by the Minister to be a place of landing or departure of aircraft for the
purposes of the enactments relating to customs.
(2) Except as permitted in writing by the Board, the commander of an aircraft entering Nigeria
from a place outside Nigeria shall not cause or permit it to land for the first time after its arrival therein
at any other place than a customs airport, and any person importing any goods in any aircraft shall not
bring the goods into Nigeria at any place other than a customs airport.

-- 19 of 188 --

(3) Except as permitted in writing by the Board, a person shall not depart on a flight to a place
outside Nigeria from any place inside Nigeria other than a customs airport, and the commander of an
aircraft engaged in a flight from Nigeria to a place outside Nigeria shall not cause or permit it to land at
any place in Nigeria other than a customs airport specified in the application for clearance for that flight.
(4) Subsections (2) and (3) of this Act shall not apply in relation to any aircraft flying to or from
any place outside Nigeria which is required under or by virtue of any enactment relating to air
navigation, or is compelled by accident, stress of weather or other unavoidable cause, to land at a place
in Nigeria other than a customs airport, but the commander of any such aircraft‐
(a) 	shall immediately report the landing to an officer or police officer, and on demand
produce to him the journey log book or document in lieu thereof belonging to the
aircraft;
(b) 	shall not, without the consent of an officer or police officer, permit any goods to be
unloaded from, or any of the crew or passengers to depart from the vicinity of, the
aircraft; and
(c) 	shall comply with any directions given by an officer or police officer with respect to any
such goods,
and no passenger or member of the crew of the aircraft shall, without the consent of an officer or a
police officer, leave the immediate vicinity of the aircraft:
Provided that nothing in this subsection shall prohibit the departure of crew or passengers from
the vicinity of, or the removal of goods from, an aircraft where that departure or removal is necessary
for reasons of health, safety or the preservation of life or property.
(5) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of this section shall be
liable to a fine of four hundred naira, or to imprisonment for six months, or to both.
(6) The provisions of this Act relating to aircraft shall apply in relation to any aircraft belonging
to or employed in the service of the Government of the Federation other than a military aircraft
commanded or piloted by a person who is serving as a member of armed forces of Nigeria.
In this subsection, the expression "military aircraft" has the meaning assigned by regulation 84 of the
Civil Aviation (Air Navigation) Regulations.
16. Provision of office accommodation at customs airport
The authority charged with the management and control of any airport designated a customs airport
under section 15 of this Act, shall within the airport provide office accommodation required by officers
of the Board for the proper discharge of their functions in the customs airport.
[1972 No. 10.]

-- 20 of 188 --

17. Examination stations at customs airports
(1) The Board may, by notice in the Federal Gazette‐
(a) 	approve for such periods and subject to such conditions and restrictions as it sees fit, a
part of, or a place at, any customs airport for the loading and unloading of goods and
any such part or place so approved is in this Act referred to as an "examination station";
(b) 	at any time for reasonable cause revoke or vary the terms of any approval given under
this section.
(2) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any condition or restriction imposed
under this section shall be liable to a fine of two hundred naira.
[L.N. 139 of 1965.]
18. Power to restrict the movement of goods into and out of Nigeria by land or inland waters and to
appoint customs stations
(1) The Minister may make regulations‐
(a) 	restricting the importation or exportation by land or inland waters of all goods or of any class or
description of goods to such hours and such routes (in this Act referred to as "approved routes")
as may be prescribed by the regulations;
(b) 	appointing places for the examination and entry of and payment of any duty chargeable on any
goods being imported or exported by land or inland waters (in this Act referred to as "customs
stations").
(2) If any person contravenes or fails to comply with any regulation made under this section, he
shall be liable to a fine of two hundred naira and any goods in respect of which the offence was
committed shall be forfeited.
[1972 No. 10.]
19. Control of movement of uncleared goods, etc.
(1) The Board may, from time to time, give general or special directions as to the manner in
which and the conditions under which goods chargeable with any duty which has not been paid, or
drawback goods, or any other goods which have not been cleared, or any class or description of such
goods, may be moved between any place in Nigeria and any other place therein.
(2) Any such directions may include directions requiring that any such goods shall be moved only
by such routes, by such persons, in such ships, aircraft or vehicles or by such other means as may be
approved by the Board for that purpose, and any such approval may be granted for such period and
subject to such conditions and restrictions as the Board may think fit and may be revoked at any time by
the Board.

-- 21 of 188 --

(3) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any direction given or condition or
restriction imposed under this section shall be liable to a fine of two hundred naira.
20. Customs areas
(1) The Board may, by notice in the Federal Gazette‐
(a) 	approve, for such periods and subject to such conditions and restrictions as it sees it, places for
the deposit of goods brought to a particular customs port, customs airport or customs station
and not yet cleared, including goods not yet reported and entered under this Act and any place
so approved is in this Act referred to as a "customs area";
(b) 	prescribe the rent to be paid while goods are deposited in a customs area provided by the
Government;
(c) 	at any time for reasonable cause, revoke or vary the terms of any approval given under this
section.
(2) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any condition or restriction imposed
under this section shall be liable to a fine of two hundred naira.
21. Powers of boarding and examination , etc.
(1) At any time while a ship or aircraft is within Nigeria, or a vehicle is at a customs station or on
an approved route, the master of such ship, the commander of such aircraft or the person in charge of
such vehicle shall‐
(a) 	permit an officer to board the ship, aircraft or vehicle and to inspect it and any goods carried
therein and any documents relating to the ship, aircraft or vehicle or to the goods or persons
carried therein;
(b) 	answer all such questions as an officer may put to him concerning the ship, aircraft or vehicle or
its voyage, flight or journey, or the goods or persons carried therein.
(2) An officer shall have the right of access at any time to any place to which access is required
for the purposes of subsection (1) of this section.
(3) If the master of any ship or the commander of any aircraft or the person in charge of any
vehicle neglects or refuses to provide means of safe access to and egress from the ship, aircraft or
vehicle when required so to do, or refuses to answer any question put to him by an officer under this
section, he shall be liable to a fine of four hundred naira or to imprisonment for six months, or to both.
(4) An officer who has boarded a ship, aircraft or vehicle under this section may‐
(a) 	remain therein for any period;

-- 22 of 188 --

(b) 	lock up, seal, mark or otherwise secure any goods carried therein or any place or container in
which they are so carried;
(c) 	require any goods to be unloaded and removed for examination or for the security thereof or
unload and remove such goods for such purpose at the expense of the master of the ship,
commander of the aircraft or person in charge of the vehicle;
(d) 	require any container, locker or place to be opened and, without being liable to any prosecution
or action at law for so doing, break open any such container, locker or place which is not opened
on demand.
(5) Where an officer in exercise of the power conferred by paragraph (a) of subsection (4) of this
section who has boarded a ship remains there for more than twelve hours, it shall be the duty of the
master of the ship to provide that officer with free boarding and lodging.
[1972 No. 10.]
(6) Any goods found concealed on board the ship, aircraft or vehicle shall be forfeited.
(7) Where, in pursuance of any power conferred by this Act, an officer has placed any lock, mark
or seal upon any goods in any ship, aircraft or vehicle, or upon any place or container in which such
goods are kept, then if, without the authority of the proper officer, at any time while the ship, aircraft or
vehicle is within Nigeria that lock, mark or seal is wilfully opened, altered or broken, or if, before that
lock, mark or seal is lawfully removed, any such goods have been carried away, the master of the ship or
commander of the aircraft or person in charge of the vehicle shall be liable to a fine of two hundred
naira.
22. Power to inspect aerodromes, records, etc.
(1) The person in control of any aerodrome shall permit an officer at any time to enter upon and
inspect the aerodrome and all buildings and goods thereon.
(2) The person in control of an aerodrome licensed under any enactment relating to air
navigation and, if so required by the Board, the person in control of any other aerodrome shall‐
(a) 	keep a record in such form as the Board may approve of all aircraft arriving at or departing from
the aerodrome;
(b) 	keep such record available and produce it on demand to any officer, together with all other
documents kept at the aerodrome which relate to the movement of aircraft; and
(c) 	permit any officer to make copies of and take extracts from any such record or document.
(3) 	Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this section shall be
liable to a fine of four hundred naira.
23. Power to prevent flight of aircraft

-- 23 of 188 --

(1) Any officer or police officer, if it appears to him that an aircraft is intended or likely to depart
for a destination outside Nigeria from any place other than a customs airport otherwise than as
permitted in writing by the Board, or from a customs airport before customs clearance is given
therefrom, may give such instructions and take such steps by way of detention of the aircraft or
otherwise as appear to him necessary in order to prevent the flight.
[1959 No.6.]
(2) Any person who contravenes any instructions given under subsection (1) of this section shall
be liable to a fine of four hundred naira or to imprisonment for a term of six months, or to both; and if
an aircraft flies in contravention of any such instruction or notwithstanding any steps taken to prevent
the flight, the operator of the aircraft and the commander thereof shall, without prejudice to the liability
of any other person under this subsection, each be similarly liable unless he proves that the flight took
place without his consent or connivance.
Importation of goods
24. Power to prohibit goods from being imported
The President may, by order‐
(a) 	prohibit the importation of any specified goods;
(b) 	prohibit the importation of all goods or any specified goods except as provided in the order;
(c) 	subject to any specified exceptions, prohibit the importation of all goods except with the
general or special permission in writing of a specified authority or authorities.
25. Saving as to goods in transit, etc.
(1) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, goods imported in transit or for transhipment or as
stores shall not be deemed to be goods the importation of which is prohibited, unless such goods are
goods the importation of which in transit or for transhipment or as stores is expressly prohibited.
(2) Where any goods imported in transit or for transhipment or as stores would, but for the
provisions of subsection (1) of this section, be goods the importation of which is prohibited, such goods
shall be duly exported within such time as the Board may direct, and any such goods which are not so
exported shall be forfeited.
(3) Goods imported in transit or for transhipment shall not be entered for use in Nigeria unless
written authorisation from both the consignor and the consignee that the goods may be so treated are
produced to the proper officer.
(4) Goods imported into Nigeria for home use shall not be entered in transit or for
transhipment.
[1972 No.10.]

-- 24 of 188 --

26. Report
(1) Report shall be made in such form and manner and containing such particulars as the Board
may direct of every ship and aircraft or vehicle to which this section applies and of all goods carried
therein, of every vehicle entering Nigeria by land and of all goods carried therein, and of all goods
otherwise brought into Nigeria by land.
(2) This section shall apply to every ship or vehicle arriving at any place in Nigeria by sea, land or
inland waters‐
(a) 	from any place outside Nigeria; or
(b) 	carrying any goods brought in that ship from some place outside Nigeria and not yet cleared on
importation.
(3) This section shall apply to every aircraft arriving at any place in Nigeria‐
(a) 	from any place outside Nigeria; or
(b) 	carrying passengers or goods taken on board that aircraft at a place outside Nigeria, being
passengers or goods either‐
(i) 	bound for a destination in Nigeria and not already cleared at a customs airport;
or
(ii) 	bound for a destination outside Nigeria.
(4) The Minister may make regulations prescribing the procedure for making report under this
section and the time within which such report shall be made, and different regulations may be made
with respect to importation by sea, air or land and inland waters respectively.
(5) If the person by whom the report should be made fails to make report as required by or
under this section, he shall be liable to a fine of two hundred naira; and any goods required to be
reported which are not duly reported, may be detained by the proper officer until so reported or until
the omission is explained to the satisfaction of the Board, and may in the meantime be deposited in a
Government warehouse.
(6) The person making the report shall at the time of making the report, answer all such
questions and produce all such documents in his possession or control relating to the ship, aircraft or
vehicle, the goods carried therein, the crew and passengers and the voyage, flight or journey as may be
put to him or required by the proper officer; and if such person refuses to answer any such question or
to produce any such document he shall be liable to a fine of two hundred naira.
(7) If at any time after a ship, aircraft or vehicle carrying goods brought therein from any place
outside Nigeria enters Nigeria and before report has been made under this section‐
(a) 	bulk is broken; or

-- 25 of 188 --

(b) 	any alteration is made in the stowage of any goods carried so as to facilitate the
unloading of part thereof; or
(c) 	any part of the goods is staved, destroyed or thrown overboard or any container is
opened,
without the knowledge and consent of the proper officer, the master of the ship or the commander of
the aircraft or the person in charge of the vehicle shall, unless the matter be explained to the
satisfaction of the Board, be liable to a fine of two hundred naira.
(8) The person administering the area within which the discharge of the ship, aircraft or vehicle
took place or, where there is no such person, the owner of the ship, aircraft or vehicle, shall deliver to
the proper officer within two days of the date of completing discharge, a tally slip, giving full and
accurate account of all the goods carried or unloaded from the ship, aircraft or vehicle.
[1972 No. 10.]
(9) The Board may, at its discretion by notice in writing, require additional information in respect
of such goods in the ship, aircraft or vehicle as it may deem necessary.
(10) If any person fails to comply with the provisions of subsection (8) of this section or fails to
give the additional information required by the Board he shall be liable to a fine of four hundred naira.
27. Entry
(1) The importer of any goods, shall deliver to the proper officer an entry thereof in such form
and manner and containing such particulars supported by documentary evidence as the Board may
direct:
Provided that this subsection shall not apply in relation to passengers' accompanied baggage unless the
proper officer, in any particular case, so requires.
(2) Goods may be entered under this section‐
(a) 	for use in Nigeria; or
(b) 	for warehousing; or
(c) 	for transit; or
(d) 	for transhipment,
if so eligible.
(3) With the permission of the Board, goods may be entered under this section prior to
importation.
28. Entry in absence of documents

-- 26 of 188 --

(1) If the importer of any goods is, by reason of the absence of any, or of sufficient,
documentary evidence concerning them, unable to deliver a perfect entry thereof, he may make and
subscribe a declaration to that effect by Bill of Sight in such form as the Board may direct and deliver it
to the proper officer, whereupon the proper officer may permit the importer to examine such goods in
his presence.
(2) Upon such examination having been made, the importer may deliver to the proper officer an
entry of such goods for use in Nigeria, if so eligible, or for warehousing, if so eligible, notwithstanding
the absence of any, or of sufficient, documentary evidence concerning them, and if the proper officer is
satisfied that the description of the goods contained in such entry is correct, and also‐
(a) 	in the case of goods liable to duty ad valorem, that the value declared on the
entry is approximately correct; or
(b) 	in the case of goods liable to duty according to weight, quantity, measurement
or strength, that the weight, quantity, measurement or strength declared in the
entry is correct,
such entry shall, subject to the provisions of section 29 of this Act, be deemed to be a perfect entry, but
if the proper officer is not satisfied as aforesaid he may reject such entry, in which case the goods shall
be deemed to be unentered goods.
(3) Nothing in this section shall permit the entry of any goods in respect of which evidence of
origin is required by or under this or any other Act unless such evidence is produced to the satisfaction
of the proper officer.
29. Further provisions relating to entry in absence of documents of goods subject to ad valorem duty
(1) Where any goods‐
(a) 	are entered for use in Nigeria in accordance with the provisions of section 28 of this
Act; or
(b) 	having been entered for warehousing in accordance with the provisions of section 28 of
this Act are further entered for use in Nigeria,
and are liable to duty ad valorem, the proper officer may require the importer to make provisional
payment at the time of delivering the entry for use in Nigeria of such sum as the proper officer may
require to be deposited as security for the payment of any amount which may be payable by way of
duty; and such sum shall be deemed to be the duty payable unless the importer within three months
from the delivery of the entry for use in Nigeria, or such longer period as may be allowed by the Board,
produces to the proper officer such evidence or such further evidence concerning the goods as he may
require.

-- 27 of 188 --

(2) Where the importer produces such evidence or such further evidence concerning the goods
in accordance with the provisions of subsection (1) of this section, then‐
(a) 	if the amount of the provisional payment is more than the full amount of the duty, the
difference shall be refunded to the importer; or
(b) 	if the amount of the deposit is less than the full amount of the duty, the difference shall
thereupon be paid by the importer to the proper officer.
30. Entry of surplus stores
With the permission of the proper officer, surplus stores of any ship or aircraft‐
(a) 	if they could lawfully be imported as merchandise, may be entered and otherwise
treated as if they were goods imported in that ship or aircraft; or
(b) 	in any other case may be entered for transhipment or for warehousing:
Provided that any goods entered for warehousing by virtue of paragraph (b) of this section, shall
not, except with the written permission of the Board, be further entered, or be removed from the
warehouse, otherwise than for use as stores.
31. Goods uncleared and missing goods
(1) On the fifteenth day after the completion of discharge of the importing ship, aircraft or
vehicle or at such times as the Board may direct, the proper officer shall, in respect of every ship, aircraft
or vehicle, deliver to the person administering the area within which the discharge took place or, where
there is no such person, to the owner of the ship, aircraft or vehicle, or his agent, a list of goods
unloaded from such ship, aircraft or vehicle and not yet released by the proper officer.
(2) On the receipt of the list specified in subsection (1) of this section, the person administering the
area, or where there is no such person, the owner of the ship, aircraft or vehicle, or his agent, shall
immediately transfer all such goods to the Government warehouse or to such other place as the proper
officer may approve.
(3) If any person fails to comply with the provisions of subsection (2) of this section he shall be
liable to a fine of four hundred naira.
(4) Where any imported goods remain unentered at the expiration of fourteen days from the date of
completion of discharge of the importing ship, aircraft or vehicle, the proper officer may direct the
person administering the area within which the discharge of the ship, aircraft or vehicle took place or,
where there is no person administering such area, the owner of the ship, aircraft or vehicle or his agent,
to remove or store all or any such goods to or at a Government warehouse or such other place as the
proper officer may approve. If any person fails to comply with any such direction within 24 hours after
such direction is given he shall be liable to a fine of fifty naira and the proper officer may cause all or any
such goods to be removed to a Government warehouse or such other place as he may approve.

-- 28 of 188 --

(5) Where under subsection (1) or (4) of this section, goods are removed to or stored at a place
approved by the proper officer, such place shall be deemed to be a Government warehouse and such
goods shall be deemed to have been removed to and deposited in a Government warehouse.
[1972 No. 10.]
(6) Where any goods which have been reported in any ship, aircraft or vehicle but have not been
released by the proper officer nor removed to a Government warehouse, are not produced to the
proper officer on demand, such goods shall be deemed to have been imported and removed for use in
Nigeria and, without prejudice to any remedy in respect of any contravention of this or any other Act in
respect of such goods, the person responsible shall, if so required by the proper officer within one year
from the date of the report of such goods, pay any duty chargeable on the importation of such goods,
unless he proves to the satisfaction of the Board that the goods have not been imported.
(7) In subsection (6) of this section "person responsible" means‐
(a) 	in respect of goods shown to the satisfaction of the Board to have been unloaded into
an area administered by any person other than the agent or owner of the ship, aircraft
or vehicle concerned or an officer in the service of the Government of the Federation,
the person administering that area;
(b) 	in respect of any other goods, the owner of the ship, aircraft or vehicle concerned.
(8) Where it is necessary for the purpose of determining the amount of any duty chargeable
under subsection (6) of this section to classify any goods and assess the value, quantity, weight,
measurement or strength thereof, such goods shall be deemed to be of such description and of such
value, quantity, weight, measurement or strength as may be determined by the proper officer having
regard to the information in his possession relating thereto.
(9) Without prejudice to the provisions of section 2 of the Customs and Excise (Special Penal and
Other Provisions) Act, if any goods removed to a Government warehouse under this section are not
cleared by the importer thereof‐
[Cap. C47.]
(a) 	in the case of goods which are in the opinion of the Board of a perishable nature, forthwith;
(b) 	in any other case, within fourteen days after they have been so removed or such longer time as
the Board may in any case allow,
[1972 No. 10.]
the Board may sell them.
32. Transfer of unentered goods for carriage coastwise

-- 29 of 188 --

(1) The Board may, subject to such conditions and restrictions as it sees fit to impose, permit
goods brought by an importing ship to a customs port in Nigeria but consigned to and intended to be
delivered at some other customs port therein to be transferred before due entry of the goods has been
made to another ship for carriage by sea to that other customs port, and any goods so transferred and
carried shall for the purposes of this Act be deemed to be carried coastwise.
(2) Imported goods which have been carried coastwise by virtue of this section shall not be
unloaded before due entry thereof has been made, except where the goods are unloaded for deposit in
a customs area and duly deposited therein. If any goods are unloaded in contravention of this
subsection, or are dealt with contrary to any condition or restriction imposed under subsection (1) of
this section, they shall be forfeited, and the master of the ship shall be liable to a fine of two hundred
naira.
[1972 No. 10.]
33. Transfer of unentered goods for carriage by air to another place in Nigeria
(1) The Board may, subject to such conditions and restrictions as it sees fit to impose, permit
goods brought by an importing aircraft to a customs airport in Nigeria but consigned to and intended to
be delivered at some other customs airport therein to be transferred before due entry of the goods has
been made to another aircraft for carriage to that other customs airport.
(2) Imported goods which have been carried from one customs airport to another customs
airport by virtue of this section shall not be unloaded except at an examination station or removed from
an examination station until due entry thereof has been made, except where the goods are removed to
deposit in a customs area and duly deposited therein. If any goods are unloaded or removed in
contravention of this subsection, or are dealt with contrary to any condition or restriction imposed
under subsection (1) of this section, they shall be forfeited and the commander of the aircraft shall be
liable to a fine of four hundred naira.
[1972 No. 10.]
34. Failure to produce goods transferred under section 32 or 33
(1) If the master of a ship or the commander of an aircraft to which imported goods have been
permitted to be transferred under section 32 or 33 of this Act fails to produce such goods to the proper
officer at the customs port or customs airport to which they have been consigned, such goods shall be
deemed to have been removed for use in Nigeria and, without prejudice to any remedy in respect of any
contravention of this or any other Act in respect of such goods, such master or commander shall, if so
required by the proper officer within one year from the date of arrival of the ship or aircraft at such
customs port or customs airport, pay any duty chargeable on the importation of such goods.
(2) Section 31 (8) of this Act shall apply for the purpose of determining any duty payable under
subsection (1) of this section as it applies for the purpose of determining any duty payable under section
31 (6) of this Act.

-- 30 of 188 --

35. Power to detain ships, etc.
(1) Where at the expiration of a period of 21 clear days from the date of making report under
section 26 of this Act of any ship, aircraft or vehicle or, where no such report was made, the date when
it should properly have been made, or such longer period as the Board may allow, any goods are still on
board the ship, aircraft or vehicle, the Board may authorise the detention of that ship, aircraft or vehicle
until‐
(a) 	any expenses properly incurred in watching and guarding the goods beyond the said
period; and
(b) 	where the goods are removed by virtue of any provisions of this Act from the ship,
aircraft or vehicle to a Government warehouse, the expenses of that removal,
have been repaid to the Board.
(2) Where, in the case of any derelict or other ship or aircraft coming, driven or brought into Nigeria
under legal process, by stress of weather or for safety, or in the case of any vehicle which suffers any
mishap, it is necessary to station any officer in charge thereof, whether on board or otherwise, for the
protection of the revenue, the proper officer may detain that ship, aircraft or vehicle until any expenses
thereby incurred have been repaid to the Board.
36. Power to regulate unloading, removal, etc., of imported goods
(1) 	The Minister may make regulations‐
[L.N. 139 of 1965.]
(a) 	prescribing the procedure to be followed by a ship arriving at a customs port, an aircraft
arriving at a customs airport, a ship conveying goods into Nigeria by inland waters or a
vehicle or person conveying goods into Nigeria by land;
[1972 No. 10.]
(b) 	regulating the unloading, landing, movement and removal of goods on their importation,
and different regulations may be made with respect to importation by sea, air or land and inland
waters respectively.
(2) If any person contravenes or fails to comply with any regulation made under this section or with
any direction given by the Board or the proper officer in pursuance of any such regulation, he shall be
liable to a fine of two hundred naira, and any goods in respect of which the offence was committed shall
be forfeited.
Provisions as to duty on imported goods
37. Duty on imported goods

-- 31 of 188 --

(1) Except as permitted by or under the customs laws, no imported goods shall be delivered or removed
on importation until the importer has paid to the proper officer any duty chargeable thereon, and that
duty shall, in the case of goods of which entry is made, be paid on delivery of the entry to the proper
officer.
(2) 	The duties of customs and the rates thereof chargeable on imported goods‐
(a) 	if entry is made thereof, except where the entry is for warehousing, shall be those in force with
respect to such goods at the time of delivery of the entry;
(b) 	if entry is made thereof for warehousing, shall be ascertained as provided in section 94 of this
Act;
(c) 	if no entry is made thereof, shall be those in force with respect to such goods at the time of
their importation.
38. Wreck, etc., liable to duty
Any goods brought or coming into Nigeria by sea not being carried in a ship as cargo, stores or baggage
shall be chargeable with the like duty, if any, as would be applicable to those goods if they had been
imported as merchandise; and if any question arises as to the origin of such goods, they shall be deemed
to be the produce of such country as the Board may on investigation determine.
39. Relief from duty of certain goods re‐imported
(1) Goods which are re‐imported into Nigeria after exportation therefrom may on their re‐
importation be delivered for use in Nigeria, where so eligible, without payment of duty if it is shown to
the satisfaction of the Board‐
(a) 	that any duty of customs or excise with which the goods were chargeable prior to their
exportation has been paid;
(b) 	that no drawback of any such duty was allowed on exportation, or that any drawback so
allowed has been repaid to the Board;
(c) 	that such goods have not been subjected to any process outside Nigeria since their exportation,
or if they have been so subjected have not undergone any change in their form or character and
are not at the time of re‐importation chargeable with duty ad valorem; and
(d) 	that the person who exported the goods gave notice in writing of his intention to export the
goods and produced them for identification at the place from which they were exported to the
proper officer, or in the case of exportation by post, to the proper postal authority:
Provided that the Board may, in its discretion, direct that this paragraph shall not apply in any particular
case where in the opinion of the Board its application would involve hardship.

-- 32 of 188 --

(2) In the case of any goods which would be allowed to be delivered without payment of duty under
the provisions of subsection (1) of this section but for the fact that they are at the time of re‐importation
chargeable with duty ad valorem, the value of such goods for duty purposes shall be taken to be the
amount by which their value has been increased by the process to which they have been subjected.
40. Goods to be warehoused without payment of duty
Any goods which are on their importation permitted to be entered for warehousing shall be allowed to
be warehoused without payment of duty.
41. Relief from duty of goods entered for transit or transhipment
Without prejudice to the provisions of the River Niger Transit Act and of any regulations made
thereunder, where any goods are entered for transit or transhipment, the Board may allow the goods to
be removed for that purpose, subject to such conditions and restrictions as it sees fit, without payment
of duty.
[Cap. R10.]
42. Relief from duty of goods temporarily imported
(1) Subject to any order made under subsection (2) of this section, where the Board is satisfied
that goods are imported only temporarily and are intended to be re‐exported or consumed on board the
importing ship or aircraft, it may permit the goods to be delivered on importation, or to remain on
board the importing ship or aircraft for re‐exportation or consumption on board as the case may be,
subject to such conditions as it sees fit to impose, without payment of duty.
(2) The President may by order declare that the provisions of subsection (1) of this section shall not
apply to any goods specified in such order.
43. Exported goods and goods delivered free of duty, etc.
(1) Where by virtue of any provision of the customs laws, any imported goods are exempted
from duty as being intended or imported for a specified use or purpose, such goods shall not be used or
dealt with in any way contrary to such use or purpose, except with the permission of the Board and after
payment of the full duty, or such proportion thereof as the Board may direct, on goods of a like kind not
intended or imported for such use or purpose.
(2) Where by virtue of any provision of the customs laws any imported goods chargeable with
duty are allowed to be delivered on importation, or removed from warehouse, for a specified use or
purpose, or subject to a condition that they will not be sold or will be re‐exported or any like condition‐
(a) 	without payment of duty; or
(b) 	on payment of duty at a reduced rate,

-- 33 of 188 --

such goods shall not be used or dealt with in any way contrary to the use, purpose or condition for or
subject to which such goods were delivered or removed as aforesaid, except with the permission of the
Board and after payment of the full duty thereon or such proportion thereof as it may direct.
(3) Any person who knowingly uses or deals with any goods in contravention of subsection (1) or (2)
of this section shall be liable to a fine of six times the value of the goods or four hundred naira
whichever is the greater; and any goods used or dealt with in contravention of this section shall be
forfeited.
[1972 No. 10.]
(4) The provisions of this section shall apply whether or not any undertaking or security has
been given for the observance of the specified use or purpose or the condition or for the payment of the
duty payable apart therefrom, and the forfeiture of the goods under this section shall not affect the
liability of any person who has given any such undertaking or security.
44. Relaxation of duty on composite goods
Where‐
(a) 	any imported goods are, apart from this section, chargeable with a duty of customs in
accordance with the provisions of the Customs, Excise Tariff, etc. (Consolidation) Act which
provides that, subject to certain safeguards, the duty on goods of which a part or ingredient is a
dutiable article or dutiable articles shall be charged as if the goods consisted wholly of that
article, or of such of those articles as is chargeable with the highest rate of duty; and
[Cap. C49.]
(b) 	it appears to the Board inequitable that the goods should be so chargeable,
then, subject to the provisions of that Act‐
(i) the goods shall be treated as comprising only those articles which form a part or
ingredient of the goods and which would be chargeable with such a duty if imported
separately (excluding any of them of which, in the opinion of the Board, the
quantity is negligible); and
(ii) 	the amount of the duty in respect of the goods shall be the amount or aggregate
amount which would have been chargeable on the article or articles taken into
account in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section if it or they had been
imported separately.
45. Valuation of imported goods for purpose of ad valorem duties

-- 34 of 188 --

(1) Where a duty of customs is chargeable on imported goods by reference to their value, their
value shall be taken to be that laid down in the First Schedule to this Act, and duty shall be paid on that
value.
[First Schedule.]
(2) The Board may require any importer or other person concerned with the importation of
goods to furnish to the Board, in such form as it may require, such information as is in the opinion of the
Board necessary for a proper valuation thereof, and to produce any books of account or other
documents of whatever nature relating to the purchase, importation or sale of the goods by that
person.
Offences in relation to importation
46. Forfeiture of goods improperly imported
Where‐
(a) 	except as provided by or under this Act, any imported goods, being goods chargeable with a
duty of customs, are without payment of that duty landed or unloaded in Nigeria, or removed
from their place of importation or from any approved wharf, examination station, customs
station or customs area; or
(b) 	any goods are imported, landed or unloaded contrary to any prohibition; or
(c) 	any goods, being goods chargeable with any duty or goods the importation of which is
prohibited, are found, whether before or after the unloading thereof, to have been concealed in
any manner on board any ship or aircraft or in any vehicle; or
(d) 	any goods are imported concealed in a container holding goods of a different description; or
(e) 	any imported goods are concealed or packed in any manner appearing to be intended to
deceive an officer; or
(f) 	any imported goods are found, whether before or after delivery, not to correspond with the
entry made thereof,
[1972 No. 10.]
those goods shall be forfeited.
47. Penalty for improper importation of goods, etc.
(1) If any person‐
(a) 	lands, or unloads in Nigeria, or removes from their place of importation or from any approved
wharf, examination station, customs station or customs area‐

-- 35 of 188 --

[1978 No. 38.]
(i) 	any goods chargeable with a duty which has not been paid; or
(ii) 	any goods imported contrary to any prohibition; or
(b) 	assists or is otherwise concerned in such landing, unloading or removal; or
(c) 	imports or is concerned in importing any goods contrary to any prohibition whether or not
the goods are landed or unloaded,
then, if he does so with intent to evade any such duty or any prohibition, he shall be sentenced to
imprisonment for five years without the option of a fine.
(2) If any person‐
(a) 	imports or causes to be imported any goods concealed in a container holding goods of a
different description; or
(b) 	directly or indirectly imports or causes to be imported or entered any goods found, whether
before or after delivery, not to correspond with the entry delivered thereof,
he shall be sentenced to imprisonment for five years without the option of a fine.
Exportation, stores and clearance outwards
48. Power to prohibit goods from being exported
The President may, by order‐
(a) 	prohibit the exportation of any specified goods;
(b) 	prohibit the exportation of all goods or any specified goods except as provided in the order;
(c) 	subject to any specified exceptions, prohibit the exportation of all goods except with the
general or special permission in writing of a specified authority or authorities.
49. Saving as to goods in transit
Transit goods shall not be deemed to be goods the exportation of which is prohibited, unless such goods
are goods the exportation of which in transit or transhipment is expressly prohibited.
50. Entry outwards
Before any goods are loaded into any ship or aircraft for exportation or as stores for use on a voyage or
flight to an eventual destination outside Nigeria or are removed from any customs station for
exportation, the exporter shall deliver to the proper officer an entry outwards of the goods in such form
and manner and containing such particulars as the Board may direct:

-- 36 of 188 --

Provided that‐
(i) where the Board is satisfied that the nature of any goods is such that the exact quantity to
be loaded into a ship cannot be ascertained until such loading is complete, it shall permit
such goods to be loaded into a ship before entry outwards thereof has been delivered subject
to the delivery of an entry within 48 hours after the loading is complete and to such other
conditions as it may see fit to impose;
(ii) the Board may, subject to such conditions as it may see fit to impose, relax the
requirements of this section in relation to any goods.
51. Special provisions relating to export of certain goods
(1) This section applies to‐
(a) 	goods from warehouse;
(b) 	transit goods;
(c) 	any other goods chargeable with any import duty which has not been paid;
(d) 	drawback goods;
(e) 	goods the exportation of which is prohibited except as provided under or by virtue of
any enactment.
(2) On or before the delivery of an entry outwards of any goods to which this section applies the
exporter shall, if so required by the Board, give security to its satisfaction that the goods shall be
exported to and discharged at the destination for which they are entered outwards within such time as
the Board may consider reasonable or, in the case of goods entered for use as stores, shall be so used,
or that they shall be otherwise accounted for to the satisfaction of the Board.
(3) Except with the written permission of the Board, no person shall export, load for exportation
or enter outwards any goods to which this section applies in any ship of less than one hundred tons
register. Any such goods exported, loaded or entered in contravention of this subsection shall be
forfeited; and any person concerned in such exportation, loading or entering shall be liable to a fine of
two hundred naira.
[1972 No. 10.]
52. Exemption from customs duties of goods temporarily exported
Where‐
[1968 No. 60.]
(a) 	any goods are entered outwards for the purpose of being exported from Nigeria; and

-- 37 of 188 --

(b) 	the Nigerian Customs Service is satisfied that it is proposed to import those goods into Nigeria
within such period as the Service may determine in the case of those goods,
the Board may, either unconditionally or on such conditions as the Board may determine, allow the
goods to be exported from and subsequently imported into Nigeria without payment of any customs
duty.
53. Short loading of goods
(1) 	Where any goods which have been entered outwards have not been duly loaded before the
clearance of the ship or aircraft for which they were entered or, as the case may be, have not been duly
exported by land, the person who entered the goods shall, within 24 hours after the clearance of the
ship or aircraft or, in the case of goods entered for exportation by land, after the date of the entry, or
within such further period as the Board may allow‐
(a) 	give notice to the proper officer of the failure to load or export such goods; and
(b) 	in the case of any goods to which section 51 of this Act applies, re‐warehouse such goods
or again enter them for exportation or for use as stores.
(2) If the person who entered the goods fails to comply with any of the provisions of this section he shall
be liable to a fine of one hundred naira, and if the goods in respect of which the offence was committed
are goods to which section 51 of this Act applies they shall be forfeited.
54. Provisions as to stores
(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, goods may not be loaded for use as stores in any
ship or aircraft departing for a destination outside Nigeria except with the permission of the proper
officer, upon payment of any duty chargeable on the exportation of such goods, and in such quantities
and subject to such conditions as the Board may direct.
(2) Any goods loaded for use as stores in any ship or aircraft in contravention of subsection (1) of
this section, or of any condition imposed thereunder, shall be forfeited.
[1972 No. 10.]
(3) If any ship or aircraft which has departed for a destination outside Nigeria carrying goods for
use as stores, fails to reach the destination for which it was cleared outwards and returns to any place
within Nigeria and any deficiency is discovered in the said goods which is in excess of the quantity which,
in the opinion of the proper officer, might fairly have been consumed, having regard to the period which
has elapsed between the departure of the ship or aircraft and the discovery of the deficiency, the
master of the ship or commander of the aircraft shall be liable to a fine of forty naira and shall also pay
on the excess deficiency any duty chargeable on the importation of such goods.
55. Clearance outwards of ships and aircraft

-- 38 of 188 --

(1) 	Before any ship or aircraft departs from any place in Nigeria from which it commences, or at
which it touches, during a voyage or flight to an eventual destination outside Nigeria, the master of the
ship or commander of the aircraft shall obtain a clearance of the ship or aircraft for that departure from
the proper officer.
(2) The Board may give directions‐
(a) 	as to the procedure for obtaining clearance under this section; and
(b) 	as to the documents to be produced and the information to be furnished by a person
applying for such clearance.
(3) If any ship or aircraft required to be cleared under this section departs from any place in
Nigeria without a valid clearance, the master of the ship or commander of the aircraft shall be liable to a
fine of one thousand naira.
56. Power to refuse or cancel clearance of ship or aircraft
(1) For the purpose of the detention thereof in pursuance of any power or duty conferred or
imposed by or under this Act or any other enactment, or for the purpose of securing compliance with
any provision of this Act or of any other enactment, being a provision relating to the importation or
exportation of goods‐
(a) 	the proper officer may at any time refuse clearance of any ship or aircraft; and
(b) 	where clearance has been granted to a ship or aircraft any officer may at any time while
the ship or aircraft is within Nigeria demand that the clearance shall be returned to him.
(2) Any such demand may be made either orally or in writing on the master of the ship or
commander of the aircraft, and if made in writing may be served‐
(a) 	by delivering it to him personally; or
(b) 	by leaving it at his last known place of abode; or
(c) 	by leaving it on board the ship or aircraft with the person appearing to be in charge or
command thereof.
(3) Where a demand for the return of a clearance is made as aforesaid‐
(a) 	the clearance shall forthwith become void; and
(b) 	if the demand is not complied with, the master of the ship or the commander of the
aircraft shall be liable to a fine of one hundred naira.
57. Power to make regulations as to exportation, etc.

-- 39 of 188 --

(1) The Minister may make regulations‐
[L.N. 139 of 1965. 1950 No. 50. 1972 No. 10.2003 No. 20.]
(a) 	regulating with respect to ships and aircraft respectively the loading of goods for
exportation or as stores and the embarking of passengers for a destination outside
Nigeria;
(b) 	prescribing the procedure to be followed and the documents to be produced and
information to be furnished by any person conveying goods out of Nigeria by land or
inland waters; and
(c) 	regulating with respect to concessions and privileges granted to some exported goods
or stores pursuant to any trade relationship between the Federal Republic of Nigeria or
any other country.
(2) A person who contravenes any regulation made under this section is liable to a fine three
times the value of the goods and any goods in respect of which the offence is committed shall be
forfeited.
58. Power to require list of cargo exported
(1) The Board may by notice in writing direct that either before or within such period after the
clearance of any exporting ship as may be specified in the notice, the ship's master or agent shall deliver
to the proper officer a full list of all cargo carried in such ship in such form and manner and with such
documents and additional information as it may specify in the notice.
[1960 No. 50. 1972 No. 10.]
(2) If any person fails to comply with any direction given. by the Board under this section, he
shall be liable to a fine of two hundred naira, and any goods in respect of which the offence was
committed shall be forfeited.
59. Duty on exported goods
(1) Except with the permission of the Board and subject to such conditions as it may see fit to
impose, goods chargeable with a duty of customs on exportation shall not be exported until the
exporter has paid that duty to the proper officer, and that duty shall, in the case of goods of which entry
outwards is made, be paid on the signing of the entry by the proper officer.
(2) The duties of customs and the rates thereof chargeable on exported goods‐
(a) 	if entry outwards is made thereof, shall be those in force with respect to such goods at
the time of the signing of the entry by the proper officer;
(b) 	if no entry outwards is made thereof, shall be those in force with respect to such goods
at the time of their exportation.

-- 40 of 188 --

60. Relief from export duty of goods entered for transit or transhipment
The Board may, subject to such conditions and restrictions as it may see fit to impose, allow transit
goods to be exported without payment of any export duty chargeable on such goods.
61. Exemption from excise duty of exported spirits
(1) The Minister may by regulations provide for the exportation and loading as stores of spirits
without the payment of any excise duty chargeable on spirits apart from this section.
[1952 No. 38.]
(2) Regulations under this section may make different provision for different circumstances and
may contain such incidental and supplemental provisions as the Minister considers expedient for the
purposes of the regulations, including in particular provision for the imposition of fines in respect of
offences against the regulations (not exceeding a fine of four hundred naira for each offence) and
provision for forfeitures in connection with such offences.
62. Valuation of exported goods for purpose of ad valorem duty
Where a duty of customs is chargeable on the exportation of any goods by reference to their value, their
value shall be determined in accordance with regulations made by the Minister and duty shall be paid
on the value so determined.
[L.N. 139 of 1965.]
Offences in relation to exportation
63. Forfeiture of goods improperly exported, etc.
Where‐
(a) 	except as provided by or under this Act, any goods chargeable with a duty on exportation are
exported without payment of that duty; or
(b) 	any goods are exported or loaded for exportation or as stores or are brought to any place in
Nigeria for the purpose of being exported or loaded as stores and the exportation of such goods
is or would be contrary to any prohibition; or
(c) 	except as provided by or under this Act, any goods are loaded into any ship or aircraft for
exportation or as stores, or are removed from any customs station for exportation, before entry
outwards thereof has been signed by the proper officer; or
(d) 	any goods, being goods chargeable with any duty on exportation or goods the exportation of
which is prohibited, are found after having been loaded for exportation to have been concealed
in any manner on board any ship or aircraft or in any vehicle; or

-- 41 of 188 --

(e) 	any goods are exported or brought to any place in Nigeria for exportation concealed in a
container holding goods of a different description; or
(f) 	any goods are exported or brought to any place in Nigeria for exportation concealed or packed
in any manner appearing to be intended to deceive an officer; or
(g) 	any goods entered outwards are found, whether before or after loading, not to correspond with
the entry made thereof,
those goods shall be forfeited.
64. Penalties for improper exportation of goods, etc.
(1) If any person‐
(a) 	except as provided by or under this Act, exports or is concerned in exporting‐
[1977 No. 38.]
(i) 	any goods chargeable with a duty which has not been paid; or
(ii) 	any goods contrary to any prohibition; or
(b) loads for exportation or as stores or brings to any place in Nigeria for the purpose of exporting or
loading as stores any goods the exportation of which is contrary to any prohibition, or assists or is
otherwise concerned in such loading or bringing,
then, if he does so with intent to evade any such duty or any prohibition, he shall be liable to
imprisonment for a term of five years without the option of a fine.
(2) If any person‐
(a) 	except as provided by or under this Act, loads or causes to be loaded any goods into a ship or
aircraft for exportation or as stores, or removes or causes to be removed any goods from a
customs station for exportation before entry outwards thereof has been signed by the proper
officer;
(b) 	exports or causes to be exported, or brings or causes to be brought to any place in Nigeria for
exportation, any goods concealed in a container holding goods of a different description; or
(c) 	directly or indirectly exports or enters outwards or causes to be exported or entered outwards
any goods found not to correspond with the entry made thereof,
he shall be liable to imprisonment for a term of five years without the option of a fine.
(3) Where any goods having been loaded or retained on board any ship, aircraft or vehicle for
exportation or as stores are unloaded in Nigeria, then, unless the unloading was authorised in writing by
the proper officer and, except where that officer otherwise permits, unless any duty chargeable and

-- 42 of 188 --

unpaid on the goods is paid and any drawback paid in respect thereof is repaid, the master of the ship,
commander of the aircraft or person in charge of the vehicle and any person concerned in the
unloading, re‐loading, landing or carrying of the goods from the ship, aircraft or vehicle without such
authority, payment or repayment, shall be liable to a fine of six times the value of the goods or four
hundred naira, whichever is the greater, and the goods shall be liable to forfeiture.
Carriage of goods coastwise
65. Coasting trade
(1) Any ship for the time being engaged in the trade of carrying goods coastwise between places
in Nigeria shall for the purposes of this Act be a coasting ship.
(2) The Board may, from time to time, by notice in the Federal Gazette give directions as to what
trade by water between places in Nigeria is or is not to be deemed to be carrying goods coastwise.
66. Power to prohibit carriage coastwise
The President may, by order‐
(a) 	prohibit the carriage coastwise of any specified goods;
(b) 	prohibit the carriage coastwise of any specified goods except as provided in the order.
67. Transire
(1) 	Subject to the provisions of this section and except as permitted by the Board, before any
coasting ship departs from any customs port or other place the master thereof shall deliver to the
proper officer an account in such form and manner and containing such particulars as the Board may
direct, and the account when dated and signed by the proper officer shall be the transire, that is to say,
the clearance of the ship from that port or place and the pass for any goods to which the account
relates.
(2) 	Where the goods taken on board a coasting ship are to be carried to different places, the master
of the ship shall deliver a separate account relating to the goods taken on board for each such place.
(3) 	The Board may, subject to such conditions as it sees fit to impose, grant a general transire in
respect of any coasting ship and any goods carried therein.
(4) 	The Board may, subject to such conditions as it sees fit to impose, grant a special transire in
respect of any ship exclusively engaged in fishing.
(5) 	Any such general or special transire may be revoked by the Board by notice in writing delivered
to the master or the owner of the ship.
68. Loading and unloading of coasting ships

-- 43 of 188 --

(1) Except with the permission of the Board and subject to such conditions as to the keeping of a record
of unloading and loading of goods and to such other conditions as it sees fit to impose, no person shall
unload goods from any coasting ship or load any goods into a coasting ship‐
(a) 	outside such hours as the Board may, by notice in the Federal Gazette, from time to time
appoint;
(b) 	except at an approved wharf;
(c) 	without the authority of the proper officer; or
(d) 	on a Sunday or a public holiday.
(2) Within 24 hours after the arrival of any coasting ship at the place of unloading and before
any goods are unloaded, the master shall, by himself or his agent, deliver to the proper officer the
transire in respect of the goods to be unloaded.
69. Power to examine goods carried in a coasting ship, etc.
(1) 	Without prejudice to any other provision of this Act, the proper officer may examine any goods
carried or to be carried in a coasting ship‐
(a) 	at any time while they are on board the ship; or
(b) 	at any place to which the goods have been brought for loading in, or at which they have
been unloaded from, the ship,
and for that purpose may require any container to be opened unpacked; and any such opening,
unpacking or any repacking shall be done by or at the expense of the master of the ship.
(2) Without prejudice to any other provision of this Act the proper officer‐
(a) 	may board and search a coasting ship at any time during her voyage;
(b) 	may at any time require the master of a coasting ship to produce or bring to him for
examination any document which should properly be on board such ship;
(c) 	may at any time ask the master of the ship such questions concerning the ship, the
goods and persons carried therein and her voyage as he may think fit,
and if the master of the ship fails to produce or bring any such document to such officer, or refuses to
answer any such question, he shall be liable to a fine of two hundred naira.
70. Offences in connection with carriage of goods coastwise
(1) If‐

-- 44 of 188 --

(a) 	a coasting ship departs from any place without a correct account or correct accounts having
been duly delivered, except as permitted by the Board or under and in compliance with any
conditions imposed on the grant of a general or special transire; or
(b) 	except for some unavoidable cause, whereof the proof shall lie on the master of the ship, a
coasting ship deviates from her voyage; or
(c) 	a coasting ship deviates from her voyage, or takes on board or discharges any goods at sea, and
the master does not report that fact in writing to the proper officer at the first customs port or
other place in Nigeria at which the ship arrives thereafter,
the master of such ship shall be liable to a fine of two hundred naira.
(2) Any goods which are loaded, carried unloaded or otherwise dealt with in contravention of any
provision of, or of any condition imposed by the Board under, section 67 or 68 of this Act, shall be
forfeited.
[1972 No. 10.]
(3) If any goods are carried coastwise contrary to any prohibition, or are brought to any place in Nigeria
for the purpose of being so carried, then those goods shall be liable to forfeiture and any person
concerned in the carriage coastwise or the intended carriage coastwise of such goods shall be liable to a
fine of one thousand naira.
Additional provisions as to information, passengers, etc.
71. Information in relation to goods imported or exported
(1) An officer may require any person concerned in the importation or exportation of goods, or
in the carriage, unloading, landing or loading of goods which are being or have been imported or
exported, at any time within three years of the date of delivery to the proper officer of the entry thereof
or, where no such entry was delivered, the date of importation or exportation thereof, to furnish in such
form as the officer may require any information relating to the goods and to produce and allow the
officer to inspect and take extracts from or make copies of any invoice, bill of lading or other book or
document relating to the goods. If any such person fails to comply with any such requirement, he shall
be liable to a fine of two hundred naira.
(2) Where any prohibition is in force with respect to the exportation of goods, or of any
particular class or description of goods, to any particular destination, then if any person about to load
for exportation or to export any goods, or, as the case may be, any goods of that class or description, in
the course of making entry thereof makes a declaration as to the ultimate destination thereof, and the
Board has reason to suspect that the declaration is untrue in any material particular, the goods may be

-- 45 of 188 --

detained until the Board is satisfied as to the truth of the declaration, and if it is not so satisfied the
goods shall be forfeited.
[1972 No. 10.]
(3) Any person concerned in the exportation of any goods which are subject to any such
prohibition as aforesaid shall, if so required by the Board, satisfy the Board that those goods have not
reached any destination other than that mentioned in the entry outwards delivered in respect of the
goods, and if he fails so to do he shall be liable to a fine of six times the value of the goods or four
hundred naira, whichever is the greater, unless he proves that he did not consent to or connive at the
goods reaching any destination other than that mentioned as aforesaid and that he took all reasonable
steps to secure that the ultimate destination of the goods was not other than that so mentioned.
72. Persons entering or leaving Nigeria to answer questions as to baggage, etc.
(1) Any person who has entered or is about to leave Nigeria shall declare and produce to the
proper officer at such places and in such manner as the Board may direct, all goods imported or to be
exported by him, shall answer all questions put to him by the proper officer with respect to such goods,
and shall not remove such goods from the place of examination without the permission of the proper
officer.
[1960 No. 50.]
(2) Any such article, which is chargeable with any duty and is found concealed or is not declared,
and any article which is being brought into or taken out of Nigeria contrary to any prohibition in force
with respect thereto, shall be forfeited.
(3) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with the provisions of subsection (1) of this
section shall be liable to a fine of six times the value of the baggage or article in respect of which the
offence is committed or four hundred naira, whichever is the greater.
73. Provisions as to persons disembarking from or going on board a ship or aircraft, etc.
(1) The Board may give directions as to the procedure to be followed by any person leaving any
customs post, customs airport or any other customs area within its control going ashore or disembarking
from or going on board any ship or aircraft which has arrived in Nigeria or is about to depart therefrom
and as to the procedure to be followed by any person entering or leaving any customs port, customs
airport or any other customs area within the control of the Board.
(2) Any person who contravenes any direction given by the Board under this section shall be
liable to a fine of one hundred naira.
74. Power to regulate boarding, etc., by ship chandlers

-- 46 of 188 --

(1) The Minister may make regulations as to the procedure to be followed by ship chandlers
going on board or disembarking from any ship in Nigeria where such boarding or disembarking is for the
purpose of trade.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers to make regulations conferred by
subsection (1) of this section, regulations made thereunder may in particular‐
(a) 	enable the Board to specify by notice, the manner in which and the period during which any
trade may be carried on, on board any such ship by ship chandlers;
(b) 	provide for the inspection by officers of the Board of ship chandlers who are on board a ship for
the purpose of trade;
(c) 	prescribe the form of application for and of the ship chandler's licence to be used for the
purposes of this section.
(3) Any person contravening or failing to comply with any regulation made under this section
shall be liable to a fine of four hundred naira, and any goods or article in respect of which the offence
was committed shall be liable to forfeiture.
75. Power to require evidence in support of information
The Board may, if it considers it necessary, require evidence to be produced to its satisfaction in support
of any information required by or under this Part of this Act to be provided in respect of goods
imported, exported or carried coastwise.
General
76. Control of small craft
(1) The Minister may make general regulations in respect of ships not exceeding one hundred
tons register and any such regulations may in particular make provision as to the purposes for which and
the limits within which such ships may be used. Different provision may be made by such regulations for
different classes or descriptions of such ships.
[L.N. 139 of 1965.]
(2) The Board may, in respect of any such ship, grant a licence exempting that ship from all or
any of the provisions made under this section. If the master of any ship in respect of which such a
licence has been granted fails to produce such licence when required to do so by any officer he shall be
liable to a fine of forty naira.
(3) Any such licence may be granted for such period, for such purposes and subject to such
conditions as the Board sees fit, and may be revoked at any time by the Board.

-- 47 of 188 --

(4) Any such ship which, except under and in accordance with the terms of a licence granted
under subsection (1) of this section, is used contrary to any regulation made under this section shall be
forfeited.
(5) If, upon boarding any ship not exceeding one hundred tons register, any officer finds any
goods for which the master of the ship is unable to account to the satisfaction of that officer, then, if
that officer suspects that the goods are being or have been or are intended to be dealt with in any way
contrary to the customs laws, he may arrest and detain the master, and take him before a magistrate
and if the master fails to satisfy the magistrate that the goods had not been, were not being, and were
not intended to be, dealt with contrary to the customs laws, the goods shall be forfeited, and the master
shall be liable to a fine of two hundred naira.
77. Penalty for signalling to smugglers
(1) Any person who by any means makes any signal or transmits any message from any part of
Nigeria or from any ship or aircraft for the information of a person in any ship or aircraft or across the
frontier, being a signal or message connected with the unlawful importation or exportation of goods
into or out of Nigeria, whether or not the person for whom the signal or message is intended is in a
position to receive it or is engaged at the time in unlawful importing or exporting of goods, shall be
liable to a fine of two hundred naira or to imprisonment for two years, or to both, and any equipment or
apparatus used for sending the signal or message shall be forfeited.
[1972 No. 10.]
(2) If, in any proceedings under subsection (1) of this section, any question arises as to whether
any signal or message was or was not such a signal or message as aforesaid, the burden of proof shall lie
upon the defendant or claimant.
(3) If any person whatsoever has reasonable grounds for suspecting that any such signal or
message as aforesaid is being or is about to be made or transmitted from any ship, aircraft, vehicle,
house or place, he may board or enter that ship, aircraft, vehicle, house or place and take such steps as
are reasonably necessary to stop or prevent the sending of the signal or message, without being liable to
any prosecution or action at law for so doing.
78. Time of importation and exportation
(1 ) The provisions of this section shall have effect for the purposes of the customs laws.
(2) The time of importation of any goods shall be deemed to be‐
(a) 	where the goods are brought by sea, the time when the ship carrying them comes within
Nigeria;
(b) 	where the goods are brought by air, the time when the aircraft carrying them lands in
Nigeria or the time when the goods are unloaded, whichever is the earlier;

-- 48 of 188 --

(c) 	where the goods are brought by land or inland waters, the time when the goods are
brought into Nigeria.
(3)The time of exportation of any goods from Nigeria shall be deemed to be‐
(a) 	where the goods are to be exported by sea or air, the time when the goods are brought
to the customs area;
(b) 	where the goods are to be exported by land, the time when the goods are brought to a
customs station:
Provided that in the case of goods in respect of which any prohibition is for the time being in force
which are exported by sea or air, the time of exportation shall be deemed to be the time when the ship
or aircraft in which they are carried departs from its final position, anchorage or berth within Nigeria.
79. Importation and exportation by post
(1) Subject to the provisions of the Nigerian Postal Services Act, the provisions of the customs
laws shall apply to postal articles and to goods contained therein as they apply to any other goods:
[Cap. N127.]
Provided that‐
(a) 	where a declaration or label made out by the sender in conformity with the provisions of the
Post Office Guide or with the regulations of the Universal Postal Union accompanies or is affixed
to a postal article, such declaration or label shall, except in such cases as the Board may by
notice in the Federal Gazette direct, be accepted in place of an entry delivered under the
provisions of this Act;
(b) 	where a declaration or label has been accepted in place of an entry, the duty, if any, chargeable
on the importation or exportation of any goods to which such declaration or label relates and
the rate thereof shall be those in force with respect to such goods at the time when the duty
thereon is assessed by the proper officer;
(c) 	where the contents of any postal article are found on examination not to agree with any
particulars thereof set forth on any declaration or label accompanying or affixed to such postal
article, such declaration or label, whether or not it has been accepted in place of an entry, shall
be deemed to be an untrue declaration made for the purposes of the customs laws;
(d) 	where any postal article is, or any goods contained therein are, found on examination to be
conveyed by post otherwise than in conformity with the provisions of the Post Office Guide or
with the regulations of the Universal Postal Union such postal article or such goods, as the case
may be, shall be forfeited.
[1972 No. 10.]

-- 49 of 188 --

(2) The President may make regulations prescribing the procedure for the examination of postal
articles for the purposes of the customs laws, and for the collection of any duties of customs chargeable
on the importation or exportation of goods contained in postal articles.
[L.N. 139 of 1965.]
(3) In this section "postal article" has the meaning assigned to it in the Nigerian Postal Services
Act.
[Cap. N127.]
80. Provision of office accommodation at post office
Where, pursuant to the provisions of section 79 of this Act, officers of the Board are stationed at any
post office for the examination of postal articles for the purposes of the customs laws, the Nigerian
Postal Service shall provide suitable accommodation for such officers for the proper discharge of their
functions in that post office.
PART IV
Warehouses and government warehouses
81. Goods eligible for warehousing on importation
The Minister may, by notice in the Federal Gazette, declare what goods may be warehoused without
payment of duty.
[1962 No. 38.]
82. Licensing of warehouses
(1) The Board may, on application, license any building as a warehouse for the deposit of goods
permitted to be warehoused without payment of duty; and it may, without assigning reason, refuse to
issue any such licence and may, subject to a refund of the proportionate part of the licence fee, at any
time for reasonable cause revoke any licence which has been issued.
[1962 No. 38.]
(2) The Board may license any building as either‐
(a) 	a general warehouse, that is to say, for the warehousing of goods which are the property
of the warehouse keeper or of any other person; or
(b) 	a private warehouse, that is to say, only for the warehousing of goods which are the
property of the warehouse keeper,
and may attach such conditions to the licence as it may see fit.

-- 50 of 188 --

(3) The licence shall be in such form as the Board may direct and shall be subject to the
payment of a fee of forty eight naira and shall expire on the 31st day of December in each year.
(4) A licence shall not be issued until the person who applies for the licence has furnished such
security for the due payment of all duties and the due observance of the provisions of the customs and
excise laws as the Board may require; and the Board may, at any time, require a warehouse keeper to
furnish such additional or new security as it may consider necessary for such purposes.
(5) Any warehouse keeper who without the previous consent in writing of the Board makes any
alteration in, or addition to, a warehouse shall be liable to a fine of four hundred naira.
(6) Any warehouse keeper who uses his warehouse, or permits it to be used, in contravention of
any of the conditions of his licence shall be liable to a fine of four hundred naira.
(7) Any owner or occupier of a building who uses it, or permits it to be used, for the deposit of
goods entered for warehousing while a valid licence under this section is not in force shall be liable to a
fine of four hundred naira and, in addition thereto, to a fine of twenty naira for every day, or part of a
day, during which he so uses the building, or permits it to be so used.
83. Procedure on warehouse ceasing to be licensed
(1) Where the Board intends to revoke or not to renew the licence of a warehouse, it shall, not
later than three months before the date when the revocation is to take effect or the licence is due to
expire, as the case may be, give notice of its intention specifying therein the said date, and no goods
shall be deposited for warehousing in that warehouse after notice of intention to revoke or not to renew
the licence has been served.
(2) The notice required to be given under subsection (1) of this section, shall be given in writing
and shall be deemed to have been served on all persons interested in any goods then entered for or
deposited in that warehouse, if addressed to the warehouse keeper and left at that warehouse.
(3) If‐
(a) 	after the date specified in such notice or such later date as the Board may in any case
allow, any goods upon which duty has not been paid remain in the warehouse; or
(b) 	after such notice has been served any goods are deposited for warehousing in the
warehouse,
the proper officer may cause them to be taken to a Government warehouse:
Provided that the Board may, if it thinks fit, permit such goods to be re‐warehoused in another
warehouse.
84. Warehouse keeper to provide facilities
(1) Every warehouse keeper shall‐

-- 51 of 188 --

(a) 	at his own expense provide and maintain at the warehouse such office, lavatory and sanitary
accommodation for the proper officer, with the requisite furniture, lighting and cleaning, as the
Board may direct;
(b) 	at his own expense provide and maintain such appliances, and afford such other facilities, for
examining and taking account of goods, and for securing them, as the proper officer may
require;
(c) 	at his own expense stack and arrange the goods in the warehouse so as to permit reasonable
access to and examination of every container or lot of such goods at all times;
(d) 	at his own expense provide all necessary labour and materials for the storing, examining,
packing, marking, coopering, weighing and taking stock of the warehoused goods whenever the
proper officer so requires.
(2) Where any warehouse keeper fails to comply with any of the provisions of this section, the Board
may direct that no further goods shall be warehoused by that warehouse keeper until he has complied
with such provision or provisions to the satisfaction of the Board.
(3) Any warehouse keeper who contravenes any direction given by the Board under subsection (2) of
this section shall be liable to a fine of two hundred naira and, in addition thereto, to a fine of twenty
naira for every day, or part of a day, during which such contravention continues.
85. Times at which goods may be warehoused
The Board may give directions as to the times between which goods may be received at a warehouse;
and the goods shall not be removed for warehousing except at such times as will allow them to be
received at the warehouse within the times directed by the Board for that purpose. If any goods are
removed in contravention of this section, the person removing them shall be liable to a fine of two
hundred naira.
86. Procedure on warehousing
(1) On the arrival of any goods at a warehouse, the warehouse keeper shall immediately report
such arrival to the proper officer. If the warehouse keeper fails to report the arrival of any goods, he
shall be liable to a fine of two hundred naira.
[1962 No. 38.]
(2) Goods which are entered for warehousing shall be deemed to be duly warehoused as from
the time certified by the proper officer.
(3) Except as permitted by the Board, all goods shall be warehoused in the containers or lots in
which they were entered for warehousing; and any goods warehoused in contravention of this
subsection shall be forfeited.

-- 52 of 188 --

[1972 No. 10.]
(4) The warehouse keeper shall mark the containers or lots of any warehoused goods in such
manner as the proper officer may direct and shall, subject to any further such directions, keep them so
marked while they are warehoused. If any warehouse keeper fails to comply with the provisions of this
subsection, he shall be liable to a fine of two hundred naira.
87. Stowage and storage of warehoused goods
(1) The proper officer may direct in what parts of a warehouse and in what manner any goods
shall be deposited and kept therein.
(2) If any goods are deposited contrary to any directions of the proper officer, the warehouse
keeper shall be liable to a fine of two hundred naira.
(3) If, except as permitted or directed by the proper officer, any goods deposited in a
warehouse are moved from the part of the warehouse in which they were deposited, or any alteration is
made in the goods or in the containers or lots thereof, or in the marks or numbers of such goods or the
containers or lots thereof, such goods shall be forfeited.
[1972 No. 10.]
88. Liability for production and safe custody of warehoused goods
The warehouse keeper shall produce to the proper officer on request any goods deposited in his
warehouse which have not been lawfully removed therefrom; and if he fails so to produce any such
goods, he shall be liable to a fine of ten naira for each container or lot not produced.
89. Repacking, etc.
(1) The Board may, subject to such conditions as it sees fit to impose, permit any goods in a
warehouse to be repacked, sorted, lotted or packed therein, and may permit, subject as aforesaid, the
blending of spirits, oils and other goods in the warehouse and such other similar operations as may be
specified by the Board.
(2) Any person who contravenes any condition imposed by the Board under this section shall be
liable to a fine of two hundred naira.
90. Entry of warehoused goods
(1) Before any goods are removed from a warehouse, the proprietor of the goods shall deliver to
the proper officer an entry thereof in such form and manner as the Board may direct.
(2) Warehoused goods may be entered‐
(a) 	for use in Nigeria, where so eligible;

-- 53 of 188 --

(b) 	for exportation, where so eligible;
(c) 	for use as stores, where so eligible;
(d) 	subject to such conditions as the Board sees fit to impose, for removal to another
warehouse.
(3) Goods shall be deemed to have been duly entered under this section when the entry has
been signed by the proper officer.
(4) Except as permitted by or under this Act, goods shall not be removed from a warehouse
until any duty chargeable thereon has been paid.
(5) Warehoused goods shall not be removed from the warehouse except with the authority of,
and in accordance with any directions given by, the proper officer.
91. Removal from warehouse without payment of duty
Without prejudice to any other provisions of this Act authorising the removal of goods from a
warehouse without payment of duty, the Board may, subject to such conditions as it sees fit to impose,
allow warehoused goods entered for any purpose other than use in Nigeria to be removed for that
purpose without payment of duty.
92. Samples
The Board may allow the proprietor of any warehoused goods to take such samples thereof subject to
such conditions, and with or without entry or payment of duty, as it thinks fit.
93. Temporary removal in special circumstances
(1) The Board may, subject to such conditions as it sees fit to impose, allow any goods to be
removed from a warehouse without payment of duty for such purpose, for such period, and in such
quantities as it may think fit.
(2) If any condition imposed by the Board under subsection (1) of this section is contravened the
goods shall be forfeited.
[1972 No. 10.]
94. Duty chargeable on warehoused goods
(1) The duties of customs or excise and the rates thereof chargeable on warehoused goods shall
be those in force with respect to goods of that class or description at the date of the removal of the
goods from the warehouse.

-- 54 of 188 --

(2) Subject to subsection (4) of this section, the amount payable in respect of any duty of
customs chargeable on goods under this section shall be calculated in accordance with the first account
taken of the goods after their importation.
(3) Subject to subsection (4) of this section, the amount payable in respect of any duty of excise
chargeable on goods under this section shall be calculated in accordance with the account taken of the
goods on their first being warehoused.
(4) The proper officer may, either on the directions of the Board or on the application and at the
expense of the proprietor of the goods‐
(a) 	re‐gauge, re‐measure, re‐weigh, examine or take stock of any warehoused goods;
(b) 	re‐value any warehoused goods liable to duty ad valorem which have deteriorated in
quality,
and in either such case, the duty on any such goods shall be payable according to the result, unless the
proper officer considers that any loss or deterioration is excessive or has been wilfully or negligently
caused, in either of which events the duty shall, subject to such reduction, if any, as the Board may
allow, be payable according to the original account.
95. Extension to all dutiable goods of provisions to warehousing
Nothing in the customs and excise laws shall be construed as limiting to imported goods the provisions
of those laws relating to the warehousing of goods.
96. Deficiency in warehoused goods
If, at any time after any goods have been warehoused and before they are lawfully removed from a
warehouse, the goods are found to be missing or deficient, and it is not shown to the satisfaction of the
Board that their absence or deficiency can be accounted for by natural waste or other legitimate cause
then, without prejudice to any penalty or forfeiture incurred under any other provision of this Act, the
Board may require the warehouse keeper to pay immediately the duty on the missing goods or on the
whole or any part of the deficiency, as the Board sees fit.
97. Provisions as to deposit in a Government warehouse
(1) The provisions of this section shall have effect in relation to any goods which are deposited in
a Government warehouse under or by virtue of any provision of this Act.
(2) Such rent shall be payable while the goods are deposited as may be fixed by the Board by
notice in the Federal Gazette.
(3) If the goods are of a combustible or inflammable nature or otherwise of such a character as
to require special care or treatment‐

-- 55 of 188 --

(a) 	they shall, in addition to any other charges payable thereon, be chargeable with such
expenses for securing, watching and guarding them as the Board sees fit; or
(b) 	if the proprietor of the goods has not cleared them within a period of fourteen days
from the date of deposit, they may be sold by the Board.
(4) Except as permitted by or under this Act, the goods shall not be removed from the
Government warehouse until any duty chargeable thereon and any charges in respect‐
(a) 	of their removal to the Government warehouse; and
(b) 	rent and expenses required to be paid under subsections (2) and (3) of this section,
have been paid and, in the case of goods requiring entry and not yet entered, until they have been
entered.
(5) The officer having the custody of the goods may refuse to allow them to be removed until it
is shown to his satisfaction that all duties, expenses, rent, freight and other charges due in respect of the
goods have been paid.
(6) If the goods are under or by virtue of any provisions of this Act sold, the proceeds of sale
shall be applied in discharge of‐
(a) 	firstly, any duty chargeable on the goods;
(b) 	secondly, the expenses of sale;
(c) 	thirdly, any such charges as are mentioned in subsection (4) of this section;
(d) 	fourthly, any port or airport charges; and
(e) 	fifthly, the freight and any other charges,
and if the person who was immediately before the sale the proprietor of the goods makes application
therefor within one year from the date of the sale, the remainder, if any, shall be paid over to him.
(7) When the goods are under or by virtue of any provision of this Act authorised to be sold but
cannot be sold for a sum sufficient to make the payments mentioned in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of
subsection (6) of this section, they may be destroyed, or otherwise disposed of as the Board may direct.
(8) If any goods are not cleared from the Government warehouse within a period of fourteen
days after being entered, or after being sold under or by virtue of any provision of this Act, they may be
disposed of in such manner as the Board may direct.
98. General offences relating to warehouses and Government warehouses
(1) Any person who, except with the authority of the proper officer, opens any of the doors or
locks of a warehouse or Government warehouse or makes or obtains access to any such warehouse or

-- 56 of 188 --

Government warehouse or to any goods warehoused therein shall be liable to a fine of one thousand
naira.
(2) Any person who fails to leave any warehouse or Government warehouse or any part of a
warehouse or Government warehouse when requested to do so by any officer shall be liable to a fine of
one hundred naira.
(3) Any person who, except as permitted under this Act, willfully destroys or damages any goods
in a warehouse or Government warehouse shall be liable to a fine of six times the value of the goods or
four hundred naira, whichever is the greater, or to imprisonment for two years, or to both.
(4) If‐
(a) 	except as permitted by the Board, any goods which have been entered for warehousing
are removed without being duly warehoused or are otherwise not duly warehoused; or
(b) 	any goods which have been deposited in a warehouse or Government warehouse are
unlawfully removed therefrom; or
(c) 	any goods entered for warehousing are concealed either before or after they have been
warehoused,
those goods shall be liable to forfeiture, and any person who removes or conceals any goods as
aforesaid shall be liable to a fine of six times the value of the goods or four hundred naira, whichever is
the greater, or to imprisonment for two years, or to both.
PART V
Spirits
Manufacture of spirits
99. Licence to manufacture spirits
No person shall manufacture spirits, whether by distillation of a fermented liquor or by any other
process, unless he holds an excise licence for that purpose as a spirits manufacturer.
100. Power to make regulations relating to manufacture of spirits
(1) The Minister may make regulations‐
(a) 	manufacture of spirits, whether by distillation of a fermented liquor or by any other
process;
(b) 	for calculating, securing and collecting the excise duty on spirits;
(c) 	regulating the removal of spirits from the premises of a spirits manufacturer;

-- 57 of 188 --

(d) 	restricting the delivery of immature spirits for use in Nigeria.
(2) If any person contravenes or fails to comply with any regulation made under subsection (1)
of this section, he shall be liable to a fine of two thousand naira and any spirits, and any vessels, utensils
and materials used for distilling or otherwise manufacturing or preparing spirits, in respect of which the
offence was committed shall be liable to forfeiture:
Provided that the Minister may by any such regulation provide a fine of a lesser amount for any
contravention of or failure to comply with that regulation.
101. Offences in connection with removal of spirits from the premises of a spirits manufacturer, etc.
If any person‐
(a) 	conceals in, or without the consent of the proper officer removes from, the premises of
a spirits 	manufacturer any wort, wash, low wines, feints or spirits; or
(b) 	knowingly buys or receives any wort, wash, low wines, feints or spirits so concealed or
removed; or
(c) 	knowingly buys or receives or has in his possession any spirits which have been removed from
the place where they ought to have been charged with duty before the duty payable thereon
has been charged and either paid or secured,
the goods shall be liable to forfeiture and he shall be liable to a fine of six times the value of the goods
or four hundred naira, whichever is the greater, or to imprisonment for two years, or to both.
102. Penalty for excess or deficiency in spirits manufacturer's stock
(1) If, at any time when an account is taken by the proper officer and a balance struck of the
spirits in the stock of a spirits manufacturer, any excess is found, that excess shall be liable to forfeiture.
(2) If, at any time when an account is taken and a balance struck as aforesaid, any deficiency is found
which cannot be accounted for to the satisfaction of the Board, the spirits manufacturer shall be liable
to a fine of double the excise duty on a quantity of spirits consisting of pure alcohol equal to the
quantity of the deficiency.
103. Penalty for unlawful manufacture of spirits, etc.
(1) Any person who otherwise than under and in accordance with an excise licence so
authorising him‐
(a) 	manufactures spirits, whether by distillation of a fermented liquor or by any other
process; or
(b) 	has in his possession or uses a still for distilling, rectifying or compounding spirits; or

-- 58 of 188 --

(c) 	distils or has in his possession any low wines or feints; or
(d) 	brews or makes or has in his possession any wort or wash fit for distillation,
shall be liable to a fine of two thousand naira.
(2) Where there is insufficient evidence to convict a person of an offence under subsection (1) of
this section, but it is proved that such an offence has been committed on some part of premises
belonging to or occupied by that person in such circumstances that it could not have been committed
without his knowledge, that person shall be liable to a fine of two hundred naira.
(3) All spirits and all stills, vessels, utensils, wort, wash and other materials for manufacturing,
distilling or preparing spirits‐
(a) 	found in the possession of any person who commits an offence under subsection (1) of
this section; or
(b) 	found on any premises on which such an offence has been committed,
shall be liable to forfeiture.
(4) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act relating to goods seized as liable to
forfeiture, any officer by whom any thing is seized as liable to forfeiture under subsection (3) of this
section may at his discretion forthwith spill, break up or destroy that thing.
(5) Without prejudice to any other power conferred by this Act, if any officer has reasonable
grounds to suspect that any thing which is liable to forfeiture under this section is in or upon any land or
other premises, he may enter upon those premises if need be by force, and search them and seize and
remove anything which he has reasonable grounds to believe to be so liable.
Manufacture of methylated spirits
104. Authority to manufacture methylated spirits
(1) The Board may authorise any spirits manufacturer to methylate spirits, and any person so
authorised is in this Act referred to as an "authorised methylator".
(2) Any person who, not being an authorised methylator, methylates spirits shall be liable to a
fine of two hundred naira.
(3) The Board may at any time for reasonable cause revoke or suspend any authorisation
granted under this section.
105. Power to make regulations relating to methylated spirits
(1) The Minister may make regulations‐
(a) 	regulating the methylation of spirits;

-- 59 of 188 --

[L.N. 139 of 1965.]
(b) 	prescribing the spirits which may be used, and the substances which may be mixed
therewith, for methylation;
(c) 	prescribing the manner in which account is to be kept of stocks of methylated spirits in
the possession of an authorised methylator.
(2) If any person contravenes or fails to comply with any regulation made under this section, he
shall be liable to a fine of one thousand naira.
(3) Any spirits or methylated spirits in respect of which an offence under subsection (2) of this
section is committed shall be forfeited.
106. Penalty for excess or deficiency in methylator's stock
If, at any time when an account is taken and a balance struck of the quantity of any kind of methylated
spirits in the possession of an authorised methylator, that quantity differs from the quantity which
ought to be in his possession according to any accounts required by regulations made under section 105
of this Act to be kept thereof, then‐
(a) 	if the former quantity exceeds the latter, the excess shall be liable to forfeiture;
(b) 	if the former quantity is less than the latter, the authorised methylator shall on demand
by the 	Board pay on such part of the deficiency as cannot be accounted for to the
satisfaction of the Board, the excise duty payable on spirits consisting of pure alcohol.
107. Prohibition of use of methylated spirits, etc., as a beverage or medicine
(1) If any person‐
(a) 	prepares or attempts to prepare any liquor to which this section applies for use as a
beverage or as a mixture with a beverage;
(b) 	sells any such liquor, whether so prepared or not, as a beverage or mixed with a
beverage; or
(c) 	uses any such liquor or any derivative thereof in the preparation of any article capable
of being used wholly or partially as a beverage or internally as a medicine; or
(d) 	sells or has in his possession any such article in the preparation of which any such liquor or any
derivative thereof has been used; or
(e) 	except as permitted by the Board and in accordance with conditions imposed by it, purifies or
attempts to purify any such liquor or, after any such liquor has once been used recovers or
attempts to recover the spirit or alcohol contained therein by distillation or condensation or in
any other manner,

-- 60 of 188 --

he shall be liable to a fine of one thousand naira or to imprisonment for two years, or to both, and the
liquor in respect of which the offence was committed shall be liable to forfeiture.
(2) The liquors to which this section applies are methlylated spirits, methyl alcohol and any
mixture containing methylated spirits or methly alcohol.
108. Remission of duty on spirits for methylation
The Board may, subject to such conditions as it sees fit to impose, permit spirits to be delivered for
methylation without payment of duty.
109. Meaning of "methylation", etc.
For the purpose of sections 95 to 98 of this Act inclusive, the expression "methylation" shall be deemed
to include the denaturing of spirits and "methylate" and cognate expressions shall be construed
accordingly.
PART VI
Beer
110. Licence to brew beer
(1) No person shall brew beer unless he holds an excise licence for that purpose as a brewer.
(2) If any person brews beer otherwise than under and in accordance with an excise licence, he
shall be liable to a fine of one thousand naira and all beer, worts, vessels, utensils and materials capable
of being used for brewing in his possession shall be forfeited.
[1972 No. 10.]
111. Power to regulate manufacture of beer
(1) The Minister may make regulations‐
[L.N. 139 of 1965.]
(a) 	regulating the manufacture of beer;
(b) 	for calculating, securing and collecting the excise duty on beer;
(c) 	as to the receipt, storage, removal and disposal of sugar by brewers; and
(d) 	as to the books and other documents relating to sugar to be kept by brewers.
(2) Any person contravening or failing to comply with any regulation made under this section
shall be liable to a fine of two hundred naira and any goods or article in respect of which the offence
was committed shall be forfeited.

-- 61 of 188 --

(3) If, on taking stock at any time, the proper officer finds that the quantity of any description of
sugar in the possession of any brewer differs from the quantity of that description which ought to be in
his possession according to any book or other document kept by him in pursuance of any regulations
made under this section, then‐
(a) 	if the quantity in his possession exceeds the quantity which ought to be in his
possession, the excess shall be forfeited;
(b) 	if the quantity in his possession is less by more than two per cent than the quantity
which ought to be in his possession, the deficiency above two per cent shall, unless
accounted for to the satisfaction of the Board, be deemed to have been used in the
brewing of beer without particulars thereof having been recorded in pursuance of
regulations made under section 111 of this Act, and duty shall be charged in respect
thereof as if that deficiency had been so used.
(4) In this section the expression "sugar" includes sugar of any description and any saccharine
substance, extract or syrup.
112. Remission of excise duty on beer for export or loading as stores
The Board may, subject to such conditions as it sees fit to impose, allow beer brewed in Nigeria to be
delivered from the brewery of manufacture for exportation or loading as stores in accordance with the
customs and excise laws, without payment of the excise duty chargeable thereon.
113. Offences by brewers
(1) If any brewer conceals any worts or beer so as to prevent an officer from taking an account
thereof, or, after particulars of any worts or beer have been recorded by the brewer in pursuance of
regulations made under section 111 of this Act, mixes any sugar with those worts or with that beer so as
to increase the quantity or the gravity or original gravity thereof, he shall be liable to a fine of two
hundred naira and the worts or beer in respect of which the offence was committed shall be forfeited.
[1972 No. 10.]
(2) If any brewer adds to beer before it is delivered from his entered premises anything other
than water, finings for the purpose of clarification or such other substances as may be sanctioned by the
Board, he shall be liable to a fine of one hundred naira (N200), and if any beer to which any thing other
than as aforesaid has been added is found in the possession of a brewer, he shall be liable to a fine of
one hundred naira and the beer shall be forfeited.
(3) If any brewer has in his possession any worts or beer which is of a strength exceeding ten per
cent of pure alcohol, he shall be liable to a fine of one hundred naira, and the worts or beer shall be
forfeited.

-- 62 of 188 --

(4) In this section, the expression "sugar" means sugar of any description and any saccharine
substance, extract or syrup and includes any material capable of being used in brewing except malt or
com.
114. Meaning of and method of ascertaining gravity of liquids
(1) For the purposes of the customs and excise laws‐
(a) 	the expression "gravity" in relation to any liquid means the ratio of the weight of a
volume of the liquid to the weight of an equal volume of distilled water, the volume of
each liquid being computed as at fifteen point five six degrees Centigrade or sixty
degrees Fahrenheit;
(b) 	where the gravity of any liquid is expressed as a number of degrees that number shall
be the said ratio multiplied by one thousand; and
(c) 	the expression "original gravity" in relation to any liquid in which fermentation has
taken place means its gravity before fermentation.
(2) The gravity of any liquid at any time shall be ascertained by such means as the Board may
approve, and the gravity so ascertained shall be deemed to be the true gravity of the liquid.
PART VII
Tobacco
115. Licence to manufacture tobacco
(1) No person shall manufacture any description of tobacco subject to a duty of excise unless he
holds an excise licence as a tobacco manufacturer.
(2) If any person manufactures any such tobacco otherwise than under and in accordance with
an excise licence, he shall be liable to a fine of one thousand naira and any such tobacco so
manufactured by him or in his possession, and any plant and materials in his possession capable of being
used in the manufacture of such tobacco, shall be forfeited.
116. Power to make regulations regulating the manufacture of tobacco
(1) The Minister may make regulations‐
[L.N. 139 of 1965.]
(a) 	regulating the manufacture of tobacco by a tobacco manufacturer;
(b) 	for securing the excise duties on tobacco.

-- 63 of 188 --

(2) Any person contravening or failing to comply with any regulation made under this section
shall be liable to a fine of four hundred naira, and any goods or article in respect of which the offence
was committed shall be forfeited.
[1972 No. 10.]
(3) If at any time the proper officer finds that the quantity of tobacco in the factory of a tobacco
manufacturer differs from the quantity which ought to be therein according to any books or other
documents kept by the tobacco manufacturer in pursuance of any regulations made under this section
and such difference cannot be accounted for to the satisfaction of the Board, then‐
(a) 	if the quantity in the factory exceeds the quantity which ought to be therein, the excess
shall be forfeited;
(b) 	if the quantity in the factory is less than the quantity which ought to be therein, the
tobacco manufacturer shall be liable to a fine of double the excise duty at the highest
rate on a quantity of manufactured tobacco equal to the quantity of the deficiency.
117. Payment of excise duty on manufactured tobacco
(1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3) of this section, the excise duty chargeable on
manufactured tobacco shall become due and payable by the tobacco manufacturer on delivery of such
tobacco from the factory.
(2) The Board may allow payment of the duty to be deferred upon such terms as it sees fit:
Provided that the date of payment shall not be later than the 21st day of the month next
following that in which the duty became due.
(3) The Board may, subject to such conditions as it sees fit to impose, allow manufactured
tobacco to be delivered from a tobacco manufacturer's factory for exportation or loading as stores in
accordance with the customs laws without payment of the excise duty chargeable thereon.
PART VIII
Other goods subject to excise duty
118. Goods to which this Part applies
This Part of this Act applies to all goods subject to a duty of excise other than spirits, beer and tobacco
and hydro‐carbon oil.
119. Licence to manufacture excisable goods
(1) No person shall manufacture any goods to which this Part of this Act applies unless he holds
an excise licence for that purpose.

-- 64 of 188 --

(2) If any person manufactures any such goods otherwise than under and in accordance with an
excise licence, he shall be liable to a fine of one thousand naira and any such goods manufactured by
him or in his possession, and any plant, materials, vessels, utensils and other articles in his possession
capable of being used in the manufacture of such goods, shall be forfeited.
[1972 No. 10.]
120. Power to make regulations
(1) The Minister may make regulations‐
(a) 	regulating the manufacture of any goods to which this Part applies;
(b) 	for calculating, securing and collecting the excise duties on any such goods;
(c) 	for the exportation or loading of any such goods as stores in accordance with the
customs laws without payment of the excise duty chargeable thereon;
(d) 	as to the books, accounts and other documents relating to any such goods to be kept by
manufacturers.
(2) Any person contravening or failing to comply with any regulation made under this section
shall be liable to a fine of four hundred naira, and any goods or article in respect of which the offence
was committed shall be forfeited.
[1972 No. 10.]
PART IX
Excise licences, entries, etc. ‐ General
EXCISE LICENCES
General provisions
121. Excise licences
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, an application for an excise licence relating to any
premises in which any goods are manufactured, shall be in such form and shall contain such particulars
as the Board may direct.
(2) Subject as aforesaid, the Board may for reasonable cause refuse to issue any such excise
licence to any person or in respect of any premises.
(3) Where an application for an excise licence (under this or any other enactment) is approved
by the Board, it shall‐

-- 65 of 188 --

(a) 	in the case of an excise licence relating to any premises in which any goods to which Part VIII of
this Act applies are manufactured, on payment of the sum of twenty naira by an applicant, issue
the licence;
(b) 	in the case of an excise licence relating to any goods other than those to which Part VIII of this
Act applies, on payment by an applicant of the relevant fee prescribed, issue the licence.
(4) Every excise licence shall be in such form as the Board may direct and shall expire on the 31st
day of December next following the date of issue.
(5) An excise licence shall be issued in respect of one set of premises only.
122. Power to revoke or suspend licences
Without prejudice to the power contained in subsection (2) of section 124 of this Act, the Board
may by notice in writing revoke or suspend any excise licence where the holder of such licence‐
(a) 	has been convicted of an offence under the excise laws; or
(b) 	has been convicted of any offence involving dishonesty or fraud; or
(c) 	has become a bankrupt or has entered into any arrangement or composition with or for
the benefit of his creditors; or
(d) 	has failed to pay any excise duty at the time when it was payable.
123. Effect of revocation, etc., of licence
(1) If any excise licence has been revoked or suspended or has expired and has not been
renewed, then the person who held such licence shall‐
(a) 	forthwith cease to manufacture the description of goods referred to in the licence;
(b) 	forthwith pay duty on any excisable goods manufactured under such licence on which
duty has not been paid;
(c) 	not dispose of any materials on the premises to which such licence relates except in
accordance with such conditions as the Board may impose.
(2) Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of this section or any conditions imposed
thereunder shall be liable to a fine of one thousand naira, and any plant, equipment, excisable goods
and materials in respect of which such offence has been com‐mitted shall be forfeited.
[1972 No. 10.]
124. Provision of facilities for excise control

-- 66 of 188 --

(1) The Board may, for the purpose of ensuring proper excise control, require the holder of an excise
licence‐
[1962 No. 38.]
(a) 	at his own expense to provide and maintain at the licensed premises such office,
lavatory and sanitary accommodation, with the requisite furniture, lighting and cleaning,
for the proper officer as the Board may direct;
(b) 	at his own expense to provide and maintain such appliances and afford such other
facilities reasonably necessary to enable an officer at any time to take an account or
make any examination or search or to perform any other of his duties at the licensed
premises as the Board may direct.
(2) If any holder of an excise licence fails to comply with any requirement of subsection (1) of
this section, the Board may revoke or suspend the excise licence.
(3) The holder of an excise licence shall provide and maintain any fitting required for the
purpose of affixing any lock which the proper officer may require to affix to the licensed premises or any
part thereof, or to any vessel, utensil or other apparatus whatsoever kept thereon and in default‐
(a) 	the fitting may be provided or any work necessary for its maintenance may be carried
out by the proper officer, and any expenses so incurred shall be paid on demand by the
holder of the licence; and
(b) 	if the holder of the licence fails to pay those expenses on demand, he shall in addition
be liable to a fine of two hundred naira.
(4) If the holder of an excise licence or any servant of his‐
(a) 	wilfully destroys or damages any such fitting as aforesaid or any lock or key provided for
use therewith, or any label or seal placed on any such lock; or
(b) 	improperly obtains access to any place or article secured by any such lock; or
(c) 	has any such fitting or any article intended to be secured by means thereof so
constructed that that intention is defeated,
[1968 No. 38.]
he shall be liable to a fine of one thousand naira.
(5) The requirements which the Board is authorised to impose on the holder of an excise licence
by subsection (1) of this section, shall include the requirement to provide at his own expense and lease
to the Board, on such reasonable terms as the Board may determine, living accommodation which the
Board considers suitable for occupation by, and by the household of, any officer charged with duties
which, in the opinion of the Board, make it desirable that he should reside on or near the premises for

-- 67 of 188 --

which the excise licence in question is granted; and the provisions of subsection (2) of this section
(which provides for the revocation or suspension of an excise licence for failure to comply with a
requirement made in pursuance of the said subsection (2) of this section) shall have effect accordingly.
125. Provisions as to books, etc.
(1) Every holder of an excise licence shall keep at his licensed premises all such records as may
be required under the excise laws, and shall make therein the required entries relating to the
manufacture, storage and delivery of excisable goods and materials. Every such entry shall be made
legibly in ink and shall not be altered in any manner other than by cancellation, that is to say by drawing
a single line in ink through the incorrect entry so as to allow the original entry to remain legible, or by
amendment, that is to say by drawing a single line through the incorrect entry and making a correcting
entry above the entry so cancelled.
(2) All records required to be kept under the provisions of the excise laws shall at all times be
available for inspection by the proper officer, and such officer may take copies thereof.
(3) Any holder of an excise licence who contravenes any provisions of this section shall be liable
to a fine of two hundred naira.
126. Provisions relating to the furnishing of information by manufacturers
(1) In addition to complying with the requirements of section 125 of this Act, the holder of an
excise licence shall, if so required by the Board‐
(a) 	produce for inspection such invoices and other books or documents in his possession
relating to any excisable goods manufactured by him during the preceding twelve
months as the Board shall require;
(b) 	answer such questions as may be put to him by the Board regarding the description,
manufacture, quantity, weight, volume, selling price, consignee, destination, cost of
production and manufacturer's profits, and any other matter relating to such goods
which the Board may reasonably think necessary for the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of the excise laws or any regulations made thereunder;
(c) 	produce such evidence as the Board may deem necessary in support of any information
so furnished;
(d) 	make such returns in such form and at such intervals as the Board may require,
and if any manufacturer shall neglect or refuse to comply with any such requirement as aforesaid, he
shall be liable to a fine of two hundred naira.
(2) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Act, the powers conferred by subsection (1) of
this section on the Board, in so far as they relate to questions regarding the cost of production and
manufacturer's profits in respect of any excisable goods, shall be exercisable only by the Board itself.

-- 68 of 188 --

(3) The Board may require the holder of an excise licence to submit annually, or at such other
times as it may require, a certificate of audit by an approved accountant not being an employee of the
holder of the excise licence certifying‐
(a) 	the correctness of all the books and records required by or under this Act to be kept by
the holder of the excise licence; and
(b) 	any such matter referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of this section as the
Board may require,
and any holder of an excise licence who without reasonable cause fails to submit such certificate of
audit shall be liable to a fine of two hundred naira.
(4) For the purposes of this section "an approved accountant" means an accountant who is a
member of one of the professional bodies for the time being declared by the Board, by notice in the
Federal Gazette, to be approved for such purposes.
127. Entry of goods leaving premises
(1) No goods subject to excise duty and which have been manufactured by virtue of any
provision of the excise laws or of any regulations made thereunder, shall be removed from the premises
of manufacture unless the manufacturer delivers to the proper officer an entry of the goods in such
form and manner and containing such particulars as the Board may direct.
(2) Where any goods entered in accordance with subsection (1) of this section are found,
whether before or after their removal from the premises of manufacture, not to correspond with the
entry made thereof, those goods shall be forfeited.
(3) If any person removes or causes the removal of any manufactured goods without any entry
made in accordance with subsection (1) of this section, he shall be liable to a fine of six times the value
of the goods or four hundred naira, whichever is the greater.
[1972 No. 10.]
General provisions as to entry of premises, etc.
128. Making of entries
(1) Where by or under the excise laws any person is required to make entry of any premises,
plant or equipment‐
(a) 	the entry shall be in such form and manner and contain such particulars; and
(b) 	the premises, plant or equipment shall be, and be kept, marked in such manner,
as the Board may direct.

-- 69 of 188 --

(2) Where any person required to make entry of any premises, plant or equipment is a body
corporate the entry shall be signed by a director, general manager, secretary or other similar officer of
the body, and except where authority for that person to sign has been given under the seal of the body,
shall be made under that seal.
(3) If any person making entry of any premises, plant or equipment contravenes or fails to
comply with any direction of the Board given under this section with respect thereto, he shall be liable
to a fine of two hundred naira.
129. New or further entries of same premises
(1) The Board may at any time, by notice in writing to the person by whom any existing entry
was signed, addressed to him at any premises entered by him, require a new entry to be made of any
premises, plant or equipment to which the existing entry relates, and the existing entry shall, without
prejudice to any liability incurred, become void at the expiration of fourteen days from the delivery of
the notice.
(2) Where the person by whom entry has been made of any premises absconds or quits
possession of the premises and discontinues the trade in respect of which the entry was made, and the
Board permits a further entry to be made of the premises by some other person, the former entry shall
be deemed to have been withdrawn and shall be void.
130. Offences in connection with entries
(1) If any person uses for any purpose of his trade any premises, plant or equipment required by
or under the excise laws to be entered for that purpose without entry having been duly made thereof,
he shall be liable to a fine of four hundred naira, and any such plant or equipment or any goods found
on any such premises or in any such article shall be forfeited.
[1972 No. 10.]
(2) If any person who has made entry of any premises, plant or equipment fraudulently uses
those premises or that plant or equipment for any purpose other than that for which entry was made
thereof, he shall be liable to a fine of two hundred naira.
General provisions as to excise traders
131. Power of entry upon premises of excise trader
(1) An officer may at any time enter upon any premises of which entry is made, or is required
under the excise laws to be made, or any other premises owned or used by an excise trader for the
purpose of his trade and may inspect the premises and search for, examine and take account of any
machinery, vessels, utensils, goods or materials belonging to or in any way connected with that trade.
(2) Where an officer, after having demanded admission into any such premises and declared his
name and business at the entrance thereof is not immediately admitted, that officer and any person

-- 70 of 188 --

acting in his aid may break open any door or window of the premises or break through any wall thereof
for the purpose of obtaining admission.
132. Power to require information from excise trader
(1) Every excise trader shall‐
[1965 No. 36.]
(a) 	produce to the Board for inspection as and when required by a notice in writing served
on him by the Board, all invoices and other books or documents in his possession
relating to any goods liable to excise duty purchased or sold by him during the period of
twelve months immediately preceding the date of the service of the notice, or any part
of that period specified in the notice;
(b) 	furnish answers to such questions as may be put to him by the Board regarding the
description, quantity, weight, volume, purchase price, selling price, consignor,
consignee, destination and any other matter relating to such goods which the Board
may consider reasonably necessary for the purpose of administering the excise laws;
(c) 	produce to the Board such evidence as it may reasonably require in support of any
answer so supplied.
(2) If any excise trader fails without lawful excuse to comply with any of the requirements of a
notice served on him by the Board under subsection (1) of this section he shall be guilty of an offence
and liable to a fine of six hundred naira.
133. Power to prohibit use of certain substances in excisable goods
(1) If it appears to the satisfaction of the Board that any substance or liquid is used, or is capable
of being used, in the manufacture or preparation for sale of any goods chargeable with a duty of excise
and that that substance or liquid is of a noxious or detrimental nature or, being a chemical or artificial
extract or product, may affect prejudicially the interests of the revenue, the Board may by notice in the
Federal Gazette prohibit the use of that substance or liquid in the manufacture or preparation for sale of
any goods specified in the notice.
(2) If, while any such notice is in force, any person knowingly makes use of a substance or liquid
thereby prohibited in the manufacture or preparation for sale of any goods specified in the notice, he
shall be liable to a fine of one hundred naira.
(3) Any substance or liquid, the use of which is for the time being prohibited by any such notice,
found in the possession of any person licensed for the manufacture of any goods specified in the notice,
and any goods in the manufacture or preparation of which any substance or liquid has been used
contrary to any such prohibition, shall be forfeited.
[1972 No. 10.]

-- 71 of 188 --

134. Board may distrain for duties
(1) Where any excise duty remains unpaid after having been demanded under section 140 of
this Act, the Board may authorise the levying of a distress‐
[1968 No. 43.]
(a) 	upon the goods, chattels and effects of the manufacturer of the goods in respect of which the
duty remains unpaid; and
(b) 	upon all machinery, plant, tools, ships, vehicles, animals, goods and effects used in the
manufacture, sale or distribution of excisable goods found in any premises or on any lands in the
use or possession of such manufacturer or of any person on his behalf or in trust for him.
(2) The authority to distrain under this section shall be in the form contained in the Second
Schedule to this Act and such authority shall be a warrant and authority to levy by distress the amount
of any duties due.
[Second Schedule.]
(3) The President may by order amend the Second Schedule to this Act.
[L.N. 139 of 1965.]
(4) For the purpose of levying any distress under this section, any person authorised in writing
by the Board may execute any warrant of distress and if necessary break open any building or place in
the daytime for the purpose of levying such distress and he may call to his assistance any police officer
and it shall be the duty of any police officer when so required to aid and assist in the execution of any
warrant of distress and in levying the distress.
(5) The distress so taken may at the cost of the owner thereof be kept for fourteen days, at the
end of which time, if the amount due in respect of duty and the cost and charges of and incident to the
distress are not paid, the same may be sold.
(6) Out of the proceeds of the sale there shall in the first place be paid the cost or charges of and
incident to the sale and keeping of the distress and in the next place the amount due in respect of
duties, and the residue, if any, shall be payable to the owner of the things distrained upon demand
being made within one year of the date of sale.
(7) In exercise of the powers of distress conferred by this section, the person to whom authority
as aforesaid is given may distrain upon all goods, chattels and effects belonging to the manufacturer
wherever the same may be found.
135. Removal of goods from entered premises without payment of excise duty
(1) Where, by virtue of any provision of the excise laws, any goods subject to a duty of excise
delivered from the entered premises of a licensed manufacturer are exempted from such duty as being

-- 72 of 188 --

intended for a specified use or purpose, such goods shall not be used or dealt with in any way contrary
to such use or purpose except with the permission of the Board and after payment of the full duty, or
such proportion thereof as the Board may direct on goods of a like kind not intended for such use or
purpose.
(2) Where, by virtue of any provisions of the excise laws any goods are allowed to be delivered
from the entered premises of a licensed manufacturer for a specified use or purpose, or subject to a
condition that they will not be sold or any like condition‐
(a) 	without payment of excise duty; or
(b) 	on payment of excise duty at a reduced rate,
such goods shall not be used or dealt with in any way contrary to the use, purpose or condition for, or
subject to, which such goods were delivered as aforesaid, except with the permission of the Board and
after payment of the full excise duty thereon or such portion thereof as the Board may direct.
(3) Any person who knowingly uses or deals with any goods in contravention of subsection (1) or
(2) of this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of six times the
value of the goods or four hundred naira, whichever is the greater; and any goods used or dealt with in
contravention of this section shall be forfeited.
[1972 No. 10.]
(4) The provisions of this section shall apply whether or not any undertaking or security has
been given for the observance of the specified use or purpose or the condition or for the payment of the
duty payable apart therefrom and the forfeiture of the goods under this section shall not affect the
liability of any person who has given any such undertaking or security.
PART X
Duties and drawbacks
General provisions
136. Determination of disputes as to duties
(1) If any dispute arises as to whether or what duty of customs or excise is payable on any
goods, the importer, exporter or proprietor of the goods shall pay the sum demanded by the proper
officer as the duty payable in respect of the goods, and thereupon the sum so paid shall be deemed to
be the proper duty payable in respect of the goods, unless the contrary is determined by the court upon
application by the importer, exporter or proprietor, which application shall be made within six months
after the date of payment.
(2) If the court determines that a lesser or no amount was properly payable in respect of duty on
the goods, the amount overpaid shall be repaid by the Board, together with interest thereon from the

-- 73 of 188 --

date of the overpayment at such rate as the court may determine. Any sum so repaid shall be accepted
by the importer, exporter or proprietor of the goods in satisfaction of all claims in respect of the duty
payable thereon and of all damages and expenses incidental to the dispute other than the costs of the
proceedings.
(3) This section shall not apply where an entry, delivered under subsection (2) of section 28 of
this Act, is deemed to be a perfect entry by virtue of that subsection.
137. Remission of duty on goods lost or destroyed, etc.
(1) Where it is shown to the satisfaction of the Board that any goods chargeable with any duty
have by accident been lost or destroyed‐
(a) 	after importation but before being cleared for any purpose for which they might be
entered on importation; or
(b) 	while in a warehouse or Government warehouse; or
(c) 	at any time while that duty is otherwise lawfully unpaid, except when payment of that
duty has become due but has been allowed by the Board to be deferred; or
(d) 	if the duty with which the goods are chargeable is a duty of customs on exportation, at
any time after being entered for exportation and before exportation,
the Board shall remit or repay any duty chargeable or paid thereon, but in the case of lost goods to
which paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this subsection applies, only if it is satisfied that they have not been and
shall not be used or consumed in Nigeria, and in the case of lost goods to which paragraph (d) of this
subsection applies, only if it is satisfied that they have not been and shall not be exported.
[1972 No. 10.]
(2) The Board may, at the request of the proprietor of the goods and subject to compliance with
such conditions as the Board sees fit to impose, permit the destruction of, and remit or repay any duty
chargeable or paid on, any imported goods not yet cleared for any purpose for which they might be
entered on importation or any warehoused goods, being in either case goods which have by reason of
their state or condition ceased to be worth the full duty chargeable thereon.
(3) Where it is proved to the satisfaction of the Board in the case of a manufacturer of any
excisable goods that any materials on which a charge of duty has been made, or any goods
manufactured by him, have, while on his entered premises‐
[1965 No. 36.]
(a) 	been destroyed or become spoilt or otherwise unfit for use; and
(b) 	in the case of any such materials or goods which have become spoilt or otherwise unfit for use
been destroyed with the permission and in the presence of the proper officer,

-- 74 of 188 --

and duty chargeable in respect thereof shall be remitted or repaid in such manner and at such time as
the Board may determine.
138. Power to grant drawback
(1) The Minister may make regulations prescribing the goods on which a drawback of the whole
or any part of any duties of customs or excise may be granted and the conditions under which such
drawback shall be allowed.
(2) Any claim for drawback shall be made in such form and manner and contain such particulars
as the Board may direct.
(3) Where drawback has been claimed in the case of any goods‐
(a) 	no drawback shall be payable unless it is shown to the satisfaction of the Board that duty in
respect of the goods or of the article contained therein or used in the manufacture or
preparation thereof in respect of which the claim is made has been duly paid and has not been
drawn back; and
(b) 	no drawback shall be paid until the person entitled thereto or his agent has made a declaration
in such form and manner and containing such particulars as the Board may direct that the
conditions on which the drawback is payable have been fulfilled; and
(c) 	the Board may require any person who has been concerned at any stage with the goods or
article to furnish such information as may be reasonably necessary to enable the Board to
determine whether duty has been duly paid and not drawn back, and for enabling a calculation
to be made of the amount of drawback payable, and to produce any book of account or other
document of whatever nature relating to the goods or article.
(4) If any person fails to comply with any requirement made under paragraph (c) of subsection
(3) of this section, he shall be liable to a fine of one hundred naira.
139. Drawback on goods damaged or destroyed after shipment
(1) Where it is proved to the satisfaction of the Board that any goods after being duly loaded for
exportation have been destroyed by accident on board the exporting ship or aircraft, any amount
payable in respect of the goods by way of drawback shall be payable in the same manner as if the goods
had been exported to their destination.
(2) Where it is proved to the satisfaction of the Board that any goods after being duly loaded for
exportation have been materially damaged on board the exporting ship or aircraft, and the goods are
with the consent of and in accordance with any conditions imposed by the Board relanded or unloaded
in or brought back into Nigeria and either abandoned to the Board or destroyed, any amount payable in
respect of the goods by way of drawback shall be paid as if they had been duly exported and not so
relanded, unloaded or brought back. Notwithstanding any provision of this Act relating to the re‐

-- 75 of 188 --

importation of exported goods, the person to whom any such amount is payable or has been paid shall
not be required to pay any duty in respect of any goods re‐landed, unloaded or brought back under this
subsection.
140. Time limit on payment of drawback, etc.
All claims for drawback and applications for overpayments or refunds of import or export duty or fees
shall be made within a period of one year reckoned‐
(a) 	in the case of drawbacks, from the date of the exportation of the relative goods or the
performance of the conditions on which drawback is allowed, as the case may be;
(b) 	in the case of goods exported or put on board an aircarft or ship for use as stores, from the date
of putting the same on board the exporting or using aircraft or ship; and
(c) 	in the case of overpayments and other refunds of import or export duty or fee, from the date of
the overpayment or the payment of the duty or fee, as the case may be.
141. Offences in connection with claims for drawback, remission or repayment
(1) If any person obtains or attempts to obtain, or does anything whereby there might be
obtained by any person, any amount by way of drawback, remission or repayment of any duty in respect
of any goods which is not lawfully payable or allowable in respect thereof, or which is greater than the
amount so payable or allowable, then‐
(a) 	if the offence was committed with intent to defraud, he shall be liable to a fine of six
times the value of the goods or four hundred naira, whichever is the greater; or
(b) 	in any other case, he shall be liable to a fine of six times the amount improperly
obtained or allowed or which might have been improperly obtained or allowed or two
hundred naira, whichever is the greater.
(2) Any goods in respect of which an offence under subsection (1) of this section is committed
shall be forfeited:
Provided that, in the case of a claim for drawback, the Board may, if it sees fit, instead of seizing
the goods, either refuse to allow any drawback thereon or allow only such drawback as it considers
proper.
142. Recovery of duties
(1) Without prejudice to any other provision of this Act, any amount due by way of customs or
excise duty shall constitute a debt due to the Government and may be recovered by legal proceedings
brought by the Board.
(2) Where any duty has been short levied or erroneously repaid, then the person who should
have paid the amount short levied or to whom the repayment, has erroneously been made, shall, on

-- 76 of 188 --

demand by the proper officer, pay the amount short levied or repay the amount erroneously repaid, as
the case may be. Any such amount may be recovered as if it were duty to which the goods in relation to
which the amount was so short levied or erroneously repaid were liable:
Provided that the proper officer shall not make any such demand after one year from the date
of such short levy or erroneous repayment, unless such short levy or erroneous repayment was caused
by the production of a document or the making of a statement which was untrue in any material
particular.
143. Calculation of duties, drawbacks, etc.
(1) Any duty or drawback, the rate of which is expressed by reference to a specified quantity of
any goods, shall be chargeable or allowable on any fraction of that quantity of goods and the amount
payable or allowable on any such fraction shall be calculated proportionally:
Provided that the Board may determine the fractions to be taken into account of any quantity.
(2) In all final calculations of duties, rents, drawbacks and other charges, fractions of a kobo shall
be disregarded.
PART XI
General
General powers, agents, etc.
144. Bond and security
(1) Without prejudice to any express requirement as to security contained in the customs or
excise laws, the Board may, if it sees fit, require any person to give security by bond or otherwise in such
form and manner as it may direct, for the observance of any condition in connection with customs or
excise,
(2) Any bond taken for the purposes of the customs and excise laws‐
(a) 	shall be taken on behalf of the Board; and
(b) 	shall be valid notwithstanding that it is entered into by a person under 21 years of age; and
(c 	shall be valid notwithstanding that it is not sealed or not signed or delivered in the presence of
a witness; and
(d) 	may be cancelled at any time by or by order of the Board.
(3) Without prejudice to any rights of a surety under any bond or other security taken for the purposes
of the customs and excise laws against the person for whom he is surety, such surety shall be deemed a
principal debtor and not merely a surety, and accordingly shall not be discharged, nor shall his liability

-- 77 of 188 --

be affected, by any giving of time for payment, or by any omission to enforce the bond or other security
or by any other act or omission or means whereby the liability of the surety would not have been
discharged if he had been a principal debtor.
145. Power to examine, mark, seal and take account of goods
(1) Without prejudice to any other power conferred by this Act, an officer may examine, mark, seal and
take account of any goods‐
(a) 	which are imported; or
(b) 	which are in or at a warehouse, Government warehouse, customs area or examination station;
or
(c) 	which have been loaded into any ship or aircraft at any place in Nigeria; or
(d) 	which are entered for exportation or for use as stores; or
(e) 	which are brought to any place in Nigeria for exportation or for loading for exportation or as
stores; or
(f) 	in the case of which any claim for drawback, remission or repayment of duty is made,
and may for that purpose require any container to be opened or unpacked.
(2) Any examination of the goods by an officer under this Act shall be made at such place as the
Board appoints for the purpose.
(3) In the case of such goods as the Board may direct, and subject to such conditions as it sees fit
to impose, an officer may permit goods to be bulked, sorted, lotted, packed or repacked before account
is taken thereof.
(4) Any opening, unpacking, weighing, measuring, repacking, bulking, sorting, lotting, marking,
numbering, loading, unloading, carrying, or landing of goods or their containers for the purpose of, or
incidental to, the examination by an officer, removal or warehousing thereof shall be done, and any
facilities or assistance required for any such examination shall be provided, by or at the expense of the
proprietor of the goods.
(5) If any goods which an officer has power under this Act to examine are without the authority
of the proper officer removed from the place appointed under this section for their examination before
they have been examined, or any mark or seal placed upon any goods by an officer is, without the
authority of the proper officer, altered or broken, those goods shall be forfeited, and any person who so
removed them or so altered or broke such mark or seal, if he did so with intent to defraud the
Government of any duty chargeable thereon or to evade any prohibition with respect to the
importation, exportation or carriage coastwise thereof, shall be liable to a fine of six times the value of
the goods or four hundred naira, whichever is the greater, or to imprisonment for two years, or to both.

-- 78 of 188 --

146. Power to take samples
(1) An officer may at any time take samples of any goods‐
(a) 	which he is empowered by or under this Act to examine; or
(b) 	which are on premises where goods chargeable with any duty are manufactured,
prepared or subjected to any process; or
(c) 	which, being dutiable goods, are held by any person as stock for his business or as
materials for manufacture or processing.
(2) Where an officer takes from any vessel, pipe or utensil on the premises of any spirits
manufacturer or brewer, a sample of any product of, or of any materials for, the manufacture of spirits
or beer‐
(a) 	the spirits manufacturer or brewer may, if he wishes, stir up and mix together the contents of
that vessel, pipe or utensil before the sample is taken; and
(b) 	the sample taken by the officer shall be deemed to be representative of the whole contents of
that vessel, pipe or utensil.
(3) Any sample taken under this section shall be disposed of and accounted for in such manner
as the Board may direct.
147. Power to search premises
(1) Without prejudice to any other power conferred by this Act, where there are reasonable
grounds to suspect that any thing liable to forfeiture under the customs and excise laws is kept or
concealed in any building or place, any officer may, without a warrant, enter that building or place at
any time, whether by day or night, and search for, seize, detain or remove any such thing and may, so
far as is reasonably necessary for the purpose of such entry, search, seizure, detention or removal, break
open any door, window or container and force and remove any other impediment or obstruction.
(2) Where there are reasonable grounds to suspect that any still, vessel, utensil, spirits or
materials for the manufacture of spirits is or are unlawfully kept or deposited in any building or place,
the provisions of subsection (1) of this section shall apply in relation to any police officer as it would
apply in relation to an officer.
148. Power of officers to search licensed premises
(1) Any officer who is authorised in writing by the Board to exercise the powers conferred by
this subsection may, for the purpose of enforcing the customs and excise laws, at any time, on
production if so required of his authority and if need be by force, enter and search any premises in
respect of which he reasonably believes that a licence under the Liquor (Licensing) Act, is in force and
any room or place adjacent to and communicating with the premises.

-- 79 of 188 --

[1959 No. 39.]
(2) Any person who obstructs an officer acting in pursuance of subsection (1) of this section shall
be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to a fine not exceeding one thousand
naira or to both; and where a person who has committed an offence under this subsection is the
manager or servant of the holder of such a licence in respect of the premises in question, the holder also
shall be deemed to have committed the like offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.
(3) The provisions of sections 22, 43 and 48 of the said Act (which provide for the endorsement
on licences of convictions under that Act and for the refusal and forfeiture of licences) shall apply in
relation to a conviction under this section as they apply in relation to a conviction under that Act.
149. Power to search vehicles and ships
(1) Without prejudice to any other power conferred by this Act, where there are reasonable
grounds to suspect that any vehicle or ship is or may be carrying any goods which are‐
(a) 	chargeable with any duty which has not been paid or secured; or
(b) 	in the course of being unlawfully removed from or to any place; or
(c) 	otherwise liable to forfeiture under the customs and excise laws,
any officer or police officer may stop and search that vehicle or ship.
(2) If, when so required by any such officer or police officer, the person in charge of any such
vehicle or ship refuses to stop or to permit the vehicle or ship to be searched, he shall be liable to a fine
of two hundred naira.
(3) No officer or police officer shall be liable to any prosecution or action at law on account of
any stoppage or search in accordance with the provisions of this section.
150. Power to search persons
(1) Where there are reasonable grounds to suspect that any person to whom this section applies
is carrying any article‐
(a) 	which is chargeable with any duty which has not been paid or secured; or
(b) 	the importation or exportation of which is prohibited, any officer or person acting
under the directions of an officer may search him and any article he has with him:
Provided that‐
(i) 	the person to be searched may require to be taken before a magistrate or
officer appointed by the Board, for the purpose of this paragraph, who shall

-- 80 of 188 --

consider the grounds for suspicion and direct accordingly whether or not the
search is to take place;
(ii) 	no female shall be searched in pursuance of this section except by a female.
(2) No officer or person acting under the direction of an officer in pursuance of this section shall
be liable to any prosecution or action at law on account of any search made in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
(3) This section applies to‐
(a) 	any person who is on board or has landed from any ship or aircraft;
(b) 	any person entering or about to leave Nigeria;
(c) 	any person within the wharf area of a customs port;
(d) 	any person at a customs airport;
(e) 	any person within a customs area;
(f) 	any person travelling from or to any place which is on or beyond the frontier;
(g) 	any person who the officer may suspect has received any goods from any such person.
151. Power to pay rewards
The Board may, with the approval of the Minister, pay rewards in respect of any service which appears
to it to merit reward rendered to it by any person in relation to any customs or excise matter:
[1972 No. 10.]
Provided that such approval need not be obtained for a reward not exceeding one hundred and
fifty naira to a person not being a member of one of the public services of Nigeria.
152. Refund, waiver or reduction of deposit or rents
When any goods are deposited in a customs area or in a Government warehouse under or by virtue of
any provisions of this Act and the Board is of the opinion that having regard to all the circumstances of
the case no rent or a reduced rent shall be charged therefor, it may waive or reduce any rent payable or
refund the whole or any part of any rent paid under this Act.
153. Authorisation of agents
(1) If any person requests an officer to transact any business relating to customs or excise with
him on behalf of another person, the officer may refuse to transact that business with him unless
written authority from that other person is produced in such form as the Board may direct.

-- 81 of 188 --

(2) Subject to subsection (1) of this section, anything required by this Act to be done by the
importer or exporter of any goods or an excise trader may, except where the Board otherwise requires,
be done on his behalf by‐
(a) 	a person exclusively in the employment of the importer or exporter; or
(b) 	a person licensed as a customs agent or excise agent in accordance with regulations
made under section 156 of this Act.
(3) No person shall transact any business relating to customs and excise with any officer on
behalf of another person unless the first‐mentioned person‐
(a) 	is a person authorised under subsection (1) of this section; or
(b) 	is a person mentioned in subsection (2) of this section.
[1968 No. 46.]
(4) Any person who acts in contravention of this section shall be liable to a fine of two hundred
naira.
154. Liability of agents for duty, etc.
Any person who acts as an agent of an importer, exporter or proprietor of goods shall be personally
liable for the payment of any duties payable in respect of those goods and for the performance of all
acts under the customs and excise laws in relation to those goods as though he were the importer,
exporter or proprietor of those goods, as the case may be:
Provided that‐
(i) 	the agent shall cease to be liable under this section after one year from the date any
such duty became payable or any such act fell to be performed;
(ii) 	nothing in this section shall relieve the principal from any liability.
155. Liability of principals
Any person who authorises an agent to act for him in relation to any goods for any of the purposes of
the customs and excise laws shall be liable for the acts and declarations of his agent, and may
accordingly be prosecuted for any offence against the customs and excise laws committed by the agent
in respect of any such goods in the same manner as if he had himself committed the offence:
Provided that‐
(i) 	in any prosecution for such offence, it shall be a good defence for such person to prove
that he had used due diligence to secure compliance with the provisions of the customs

-- 82 of 188 --

and excise laws, as the case may be, and the offence was committed without his
consent, connivance or wilful default; and
(ii) 	nothing contained in this section shall relieve the agent from liability to prosecution for
any offence under the customs and excise laws.
156. Customs agents and excise agents
(1) The Minister may make regulations with respect to the licensing of customs agents and
excise agents; and without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by this subsection,
regulations may in particular provide for‐
(a) 	the fees to be paid and the security to be given by such agents;
(b) 	the form of application for any such licence.
[1968 No. 46.]
(2) Any person contravening or failing to comply with any regulation made under this section
shall be liable to a fine of four hundred naira and any goods or article in respect of which the offence
was committed shall be forfeited.
157. Board, etc., not liable for loss of goods
No compensation shall be payable by and no action shall lie against the Board or any officer for any loss
or damage caused to any goods by any officer acting in the execution of his duty, except where the loss
or damage occurs as the direct result of the unlawful act or negligence of such officer:
Provided that if any warehoused goods or goods on the premises of the holder of an excise
licence are destroyed, stolen or unlawfully removed by or with the assistance or connivance of an
officer, and that officer is convicted of the offence, then except where the warehouse keeper or
proprietor of the goods or holder of the excise licence was a party to the offence, the Board shall pay
compensation for any loss caused by any such destruction, theft or removal, and, notwithstanding any
provision of this Act, no duty shall be payable on the goods by the occupier or proprietor or holder of
the excise license aforesaid, and any sum paid by way of duty on those goods by any of those persons
before the conviction shall be repaid.
158. Power to patrol freely
(1) The person in charge of any ship, aircraft or vehicle employed in the enforcement of the
customs and excise laws‐
(a) 	may take such ship, aircraft or vehicle to any place in Nigeria; and
(b) 	keep any such ship, aircraft or vehicle at any place in Nigeria for such time as he shall
deem necessary,

-- 83 of 188 --

and such person shall not be liable to any prosecution or action at law for so doing.
(2) Any officer engaged in the enforcement of the customs and excise laws may for that purpose
patrol upon and pass freely over and enter any place in Nigeria, and such officer shall not be liable to
any prosecution or action at law for so doing.
(3) Nothing in this section shall authorise entry into any dwelling‐house or other building.
159. Penalty for interfering with customs and excise ships, etc.
(1) Any person who interferes in any way with any ship, aircraft, vehicle, buoy, anchor, chain,
rope or mark which is being used for the purpose of enforcing the customs and excise laws shall be
liable to a fine of two hundred naira.
(2) Any person who fires upon any ship, aircraft or vehicle which is being used for the purpose of
enforcing the customs and excise laws or by an officer while otherwise engaged in the execution of his
duty shall be sentenced to death.
General offences
160. Failure to pay duty on demand
If any customs and excise duty is not paid at the time when it becomes payable under any
enactment by any person from whom it is due, whether or not payment of that duty has been secured
by bond or otherwise, it shall be paid on demand made by the Board either on that person personally or
by delivering the demand in writing to his place of abode or business, and if it is not so paid on demand,
he shall, in addition to the amount of customs and excise duty, be liable to a fine equal to twice the
amount thereof or six hundred naira, whichever is the greater.
[1966 No. 43.]
161. Untrue declarations, etc.
(1) If any person‐
(a) 	makes or signs, or causes to be made or signed, or delivers or causes to be delivered, to the
Board or an officer, any declaration, notice, certificate or other document whatsoever; or
(b) 	makes any statement in answer to any question put to him by an officer which he is required by
or under this Act to answer,
being a document or statement produced or made for any purpose of customs and excise, which is
untrue in any material particular, he shall be guilty of an offence under this section.
(2) Where, by reason of any such document or statement required to be produced under
subsection (1) of this section, the full amount of any duty payable is not paid or any overpayment is

-- 84 of 188 --

made in respect of any drawback or repayment of duty, the amount of the duty unpaid or the
overpayment shall be recoverable as a debt due to the Federal Government.
[1972 No. 10.]
(3) Without prejudice to subsection (2) of this section, where any person who commits an
offence under this section does so either knowingly or recklessly, he shall be liable to a fine of one
thousand naira or to imprisonment for two years or to both; and any goods in relation to which the
document or statement was made shall be forfeited.
(4) Without prejudice to subsection (2) of this section, where any person commits an offence
under this section in such circumstances that he is not liable under subsection (3) of this section, he shall
be liable to a fine of six hundred naira.
162. Counterfeiting documents, etc.
If any person‐
(a) 	counterfeits or falsifies any document which is required by or under the customs and excise
laws or which is used for the transaction of any business relating to customs and excise; or
(b) 	knowingly accepts, receives or uses any such document so counterfeited or falsified; or
(c) 	alters any such document after it is officially issued; or
(d) 	counterfeits any seal, signature, initials or other mark of, or used by, any officer for the
verification of such a document or for the security of goods or for any other purpose relating to
customs and excise,
he shall be liable to a fine of one thousand naira or to imprisonment for two years, or to both.
163. False scales, etc.
(1) If any person required by or under the customs and excise laws to provide scales for any
purpose of those laws provides, uses, or permits to be used any scales which are false or unjust, he shall
be guilty of an offence under this section.
(2) Where any goods are, or are to be, weighed, counted, gauged or measured for the purposes
of the taking of an account of the making of an examination by an officer, if any such person as is
mentioned in subsection (1) of this section, or any person by whom or on whose behalf the goods are
weighed, counted, gauged or measured, does anything either before, during or after the weighing,
counting, gauging or measuring, whereby the officer is or might be prevented from, or hindered or
deceived in, taking a just account or making a due examination, he shall be guilty of an offence under
this section.

-- 85 of 188 --

(3) Any person committing an offence under this section shall be liable to a fine of four hundred
naira and any false or unjust scales and any goods in connection with which the offence was committed
shall be forfeited.
[1972 No. 10.]
(4) In this section, the expression "scales" includes weights, measures and weighing and
measuring machines or instruments.
164. Penalty for fraudulent evasion of duty
Without prejudice to any other provision of this Act, if any person‐
(a) 	knowingly and with intent to defraud the Federal Government of any duty payable thereon, or
to evade any prohibition with respect thereto, acquires possession of, or is in any way
concerned in the carrying, removing, depositing, harbouring, keeping or concealing or in any
manner dealing with any goods which have been unlawfully removed from a warehouse or
Government warehouse, or which are chargeable with a duty which has not been paid, or with
respect to the importation, exportation or carriage coastwise of which any prohibition is for the
time being in force; or
(b) 	is, in relation to any goods, in any way knowingly concerned in any fraudulent evasion or
attempt at evasion of any duty chargeable thereon or of any such prohibition as aforesaid or of
any provision of this Act applicable to those goods,
he shall be liable to a fine of six times the value of the goods or four hundred naira, whichever is
the greater, or to imprisonment for two years, or to both.
165. Punishment where offenders armed or disguised
Any person‐
(a) 	who, while concerned in the commission of any offence against the customs and excise laws, is
armed with any offensive weapon; and
(b) 	so armed found in Nigeria in possession of any goods liable to forfeiture under the customs
laws,
shall be liable to imprisonment for ten years.
(2) If an offender under subsection (1) of this section is armed with any firearms and with such
firearms causes injury to an officer he shall be sentenced to death.
(3) Any person who, while concerned in the commission of any offence against the customs and
excise laws, is disguised in any way, and any person so disguised found in possession of any goods liable
to forfeiture under the customs laws, shall be liable to imprisonment for three years.

-- 86 of 188 --

166. Penalty for assembling to contravene provisions of the customs or excise laws
Any person who assembles with two or more other persons for the purpose of contravening any of the
provisions of the customs and excise laws shall be liable to imprisonment for one year.
PART XII
Forfeiture and legal proceedings
Forfeiture
167. Provisions as to detention, seizure and condemnation of goods, etc.
(1) Any officer or police officer, or any other person authorised in that behalf by the Board, may
at any time seize or detain any thing liable to forfeiture under the customs and excise laws or which
such officer, police officer or other person has reasonable grounds to believe is liable to forfeiture
thereunder.
(2) Any thing seized or detained under the customs and excise laws shall forthwith be delivered
into the care of the Board and, subject to the provisions of the Third Schedule to this Act, shall, pending
the determination as to its forfeiture or disposal, be dealt with, and, if condemned or deemed to have
been condemned as forfeited, shall be disposed of, in such manner as the Board may direct.
[Third Schedule.]
(3) The provisions of the Third Schedule to this Act shall have effect for the purposes of
forfeiture, and all proceedings for the condemnation of any thing as being forfeited, under the customs
and excise laws.
168. Forfeiture of excisable goods
Where, by or under any provision of this Act, goods of a kind subject to excise duty become liable to
forfeiture by reason of some offence committed by an excise trader, but such goods are not available for
forfeiture, the Board may seize from the stock of that trader goods of that kind to such quantity as
would attract the same amount of duty as the amount of duty on the goods liable to forfeiture.
169. Forfeiture of ships, etc., used in connection with goods liable to forfeiture
(1) Without prejudice to any other provision of this Act, where anything has become forfeited
under the customs and excise laws‐
(a) 	any ship, aircraft, vehicle, animal, container (including any article of passenger's
baggage) or anything whatsoever which has been used for the carriage, handling,
deposit or concealment of the thing so forfeited either at a time when it was so liable or
for the purposes of the commission of the offence for which it later became so forfeited;
and

-- 87 of 188 --

(b) 	any other thing mixed, packed or found with the thing so forfeited, shall also be
forfeited.
[1972 No. 10.]
(2) Where any ship, aircraft, vehicle or animal has become forfeited under the customs and
excise laws, whether by virtue of subsection (1) of this section or otherwise, all tackle, apparel or
furniture thereof shall also be forfeited.
170. Penalty for failure of master, etc., to bring to or stop when required
(1) If any ship, aircraft or vehicle which is liable to forfeiture or inspection under the customs
and excise laws does not bring to or stop when required so to do by an officer and so remain for such
period as the officer may require, the master of the ship, commander of the aircraft or person in charge
of the vehicle shall be liable to a fine of two hundred naira.
(2) Where any ship liable to forfeiture or inspection under subsection (1) of this section has
failed to bring to or stop when required so to do by a Government ship and, after the commanding
officer of such Government ship has hoisted the proper ensign and caused a shot to be fired as a signal,
the ship liable to forfeiture or inspection still fails to bring to or stop, such Government ship may, on the
instruction of the commanding officer, fire upon the ship liable to forfeiture or inspection with any
weapon lawfully carried.
(3) In this section, "Government ship" means a ship lawfully armed in the service of the
Government of the Federation.
171. Ships, etc., constructed for concealing goods
Any ship, aircraft or vehicle which is found to be engaged in, to have been engaged in or to be about to
depart on, a voyage, flight or journey while constructed, adapted, altered or fitted in any manner for the
purpose of concealing goods, shall be forfeited.
172. Ships jettisoning cargo
(1) If any part of the cargo of a ship is thrown overboard, or staved or destroyed to prevent
seizure after the ship has been properly summoned to bring to by any ship employed in the
enforcement of the customs and excise laws, the ships from which such cargo was thrown overboard or
on which such cargo was staved or destroyed shall be forfeited.
(2) For the purposes of this section, a ship shall be deemed to have been properly summoned to
bring to if the ship making the summons did so by means of an international signal code or other
recognised means and while flying her proper ensign.
173. Special provision as to forfeiture of larger ships or aircraft

-- 88 of 188 --

(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, a ship of two hundred and fifty or more tons register
or an aircraft shall not be forfeited under or by virtue of any provision of this Act, unless the offence in
respect of or in connection with which the forfeiture is claimed‐
[1972 No. 10.]
(a) 	was substantially the object of the voyage or flight in connection with which the
offence was committed; or
(b) 	in the case of a ship, was committed while the ship was under chase by a ship employed
in the enforcement of the customs and excise laws after failing to bring to or stop when
properly summoned to do so.
(2) For the purposes of this section, a ship shall be deemed to have been properly summoned to
bring to or stop if the ship making the summons did so by means of an international signal code or other
recognised means and while flying her proper ensign.
(3) The exemption from forfeiture of any ship or aircraft under this section shall not affect any
liability to forfeiture of goods carried therein.
174. Penalty in lieu of forfeiture of larger ships or of aircraft, where responsible officer implicated in
offence
(1) Where any ship of two hundred and fifty or more tons register or any aircraft would but for
section 173 of this Act be liable to forfeiture for or in connection with any offence under the customs
and excise laws and, in the opinion of the Board, a responsible officer of the ship or aircraft is implicated
either by his own act or by neglect in that offence, the Board may fine that ship or aircraft such sum not
exceeding one hundred naira, as it sees fit.
(2) Where any ship or aircraft is liable to a fine under subsection (1) of this section but the Board
considers that fine an inadequate penalty for the offence, it may take proceedings in accordance with
the Third Schedule to this Act, in like manner as it might, but for section 173 of this Act, have taken
proceedings for the condemnation of the ship or aircraft if notice of claim had been given in respect
thereof, for the condemnation of the ship or aircraft in such sum not exceeding one thousand naira as
the court may see fit.
(3) Where any fine is to be imposed or any proceedings are to be taken under this section, the
Board may require such sum as it sees fit, not exceeding one hundred naira or as the case may be, one
thousand naira, to be deposited with the Board to await its final decision or, as the case may be, the
decision of the court, and may detain the ship or aircraft until that sum has been so deposited.
(4) No claim shall lie against the Board for damages in respect of the payment of any deposit or
the detention of any ship under this section.
(5) For the purposes of this section‐

-- 89 of 188 --

(a) 	the expression "responsible officer" includes‐
[1968 No. 46.]
(i) 	in the case of a ship not carrying a passenger certificate, the master, a mate, the chief
steward and an engineer;
(ii) 	in the case of a ship carrying a passenger certificate, the master, the purser, the chief
steward and the chief engineer;
(iii) 	in the case of an aircraft, the commander, a pilot, a navigator, the chief steward and the
chief engineer,
(b) 	without prejudice to any other grounds upon which a responsible officer may be held to be
implicated by neglect, he may be so held if goods not owned to by any member of the crew are
discovered in a place under that officer's supervision in which they could not reasonably have
been put if he had exercised proper care at the time of the loading of the ship or subsequently.
175. Protection of officers, etc., in relation to seizure and detention of goods, etc.
(1) Where, in any proceedings for the condemnation of any thing seized as liable to forfeiture
under the customs and excise laws, judgment is given for the claimant, the court may, if it sees fit,
certify that there were reasonable grounds for the seizure.
(2) Where any proceedings, whether civil or criminal, are brought against the Board or any
person authorised by or under this Act to seize or detain any thing liable to forfeiture under the customs
and excise laws on account of the seizure or detention of any thing, and judgment is given for the
plaintiff or prosecutor, then if either‐
(a) 	a certificate relative to the seizure has been granted under subsection (1) of this
section; or
(b) 	the court is satisfied that there were reasonable grounds for seizing or detaining that
thing under the customs and excise laws,
the plaintiff or prosecutor shall not be entitled to recover any damages or costs and the defendant shall
not be liable to any punishment:
Provided that nothing in this subsection or in section 157 of this Act shall affect any right of any
person to the return of the thing seized or detained or to compensation in respect of any damage to the
thing or in respect of the destruction thereof.
(2) Any certificate under subsection (1) of this section may be proved by the production of either
the original certificate or a certified copy thereof purporting to be signed by an officer of the court by
which it was granted.
General provisions as to legal proceedings

-- 90 of 188 --

176. Institute of proceedings
(1) 	Where by or under any provision of the customs and excise laws a fine or imprisonment is
prescribed for any offence, such fine or imprisonment shall be enforceable by the ordinary procedure
applicable in respect of criminal matters in the place in Nigeria where the proceedings are brought.
(2) A court shall not, except with the consent of the person charged, proceed to hear any
charge in respect of an offence under any provision of the customs and excise laws unless the
continuation of such proceedings is sanctioned by the Board.
(3) No proceedings shall be instituted except within seven years of the date of the commission
of the offence.
(4) Nothing in subsection (2) of this section, shall prevent the institution of proceedings for an
offence under the customs and excise laws by or in the name of the Attorney‐General of the Federation
in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 in any case
in which he thinks it proper that proceedings should be so instituted, or the continuation of proceedings
so instituted.
[L.N. 139 of 1965.]
177. Proceedings under customs and excise laws to have priority over other proceedings
Civil or criminal proceedings in a court by the Board under the customs and excise laws (including
appeals arising therefrom) shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law, take
precedence over all other matters or proceedings instituted or pending before that court.
[1972 No. 10.]
178. Place of offence
(1) Every offence committed under the customs and excise laws may be inquired into or tried‐
[1966 No. 43.]
(a) 	in any court having jurisdiction in the place where the person charged with the offence resides
or is found; or
(b) 	in any court having jurisdiction in that part of Nigeria where the offence was committed, and
every such court shall be deemed to have jurisdiction to try the offence accordingly.
(2) Where an offence under the customs and excise laws is committed at some place on the
water or in the air outside the area covered by the jurisdiction of any court in Nigeria, the offence shall,
for the purpose of conferring jurisdiction, be deemed to have been committed at any place in Nigeria
where the offender is found or to which he is first brought after the commission of the offence.

-- 91 of 188 --

(3) The jurisdiction conferred under subsection (2) of this section shall be in addition to and not
in derogation of any jurisdiction or power conferred under any other enactment.
179. Penalties prescribed to be maximum penalties
Where, by or under any provision of the customs and excise laws, a fine or term of imprisonment is
prescribed, such fine or term of imprisonment shall be deemed to be a fine or term of imprisonment not
exceeding the fine or term of imprisonment so prescribed.
180. Conduct of proceedings by customs officers
(1) Subject to the provisions of section 174 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria
1999 (which relates to the power of the Attorney‐General of the Federation to institute, continue or
discontinue criminal proceedings against any person in any court of law), any officer of the Nigerian
Customs Service may, with the consent of the Comptroller‐General of that service, conduct criminal or
other proceedings in respect of matters relating to customs and excise under the customs and excise
laws.
[Cap. C23.]
(2) As regards the conduct of proceedings under this Act (whether civil or criminal) in the
Federal High Court, any reference to an officer shall be a reference to such officer who is a legal
practitioner.
181. Offences punishable on indictment or summarily
(1) Any offence under the customs and excise laws‐
(a) 	where it is punishable with imprisonment for a term of two years or more, with or
without a fine, shall be punishable either on summary conviction or on conviction on
indictment;
(b) 	in any other case, shall be punishable on summary conviction.
(2) Notwithstanding anything in any enactment, every magistrate in any part of Nigeria shall
have jurisdiction for the summary trial of any offence under the customs and excise laws, and may
impose any fine or term of imprisonment provided by the customs and excise laws for that offence.
[1966 No. 85.]
(3) Without prejudice to the powers of any other court of competent jurisdiction, any
proceedings for condemnation under the Third Schedule to this Act or for the recovery of any duty or
other sum payable under the customs and excise laws may be heard and determined, without limit of
amount, by a court of summary jurisdiction.
182. Incidental provisions as to legal proceedings

-- 92 of 188 --

(1) Where liability for any offence under the customs and excise laws is incurred by two or more
persons jointly, those persons shall each be liable for the full amount of any fine and may be proceeded
against jointly or severally.
(2) In any proceedings for an offence or for the condemnation of any thing as being forfeited
under the customs and excise laws, the fact that security has been given by bond or otherwise for the
payment of any duty or for compliance with any condition in respect of the non‐payment of which or
non‐compliance with which the proceedings are instituted, shall not be a defence.
(3) Where by or under any provision of the customs and excise laws a punishment is prescribed
for an offence, and any person is convicted in the same proceedings of more than one such offence, that
person shall be liable to that punishment for each such offence of which he is so convicted.
(4) Where a fine for any offence under the customs and excise laws is required to be fixed by
reference to the value of any goods, that value shall be taken as the price which those goods might
reasonably be expected to have fetched, after payment of any duty chargeable thereon, if they had
been sold in the open market at or about the date of the commission of the offence for which the fine is
imposed. A certificate as to the value of such goods under the hand of an officer shall be accepted as
proof of such value, and shall be conclusive unless challenged by the person charged, in which event the
court may proceed to hear evidence of value.
(5) Where an offence under the customs and excise laws which has been committed by a body
corporate is proved to have been committed with the consent or connivance of, or to be attributable to
any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body
corporate or any person purporting to act in any such capacity, he as well as the body corporate shall be
deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly. In this subsection the expression "director", in relation to any body corporate established
for the purpose of carrying on under public ownership any industry or part of an industry or
undertaking, being a body corporate whose affairs are managed by the members thereof, means a
member of that body corporate.
(6) Where, in any proceedings for an offence under the customs and excise laws, any question
arises as to the duty or the rate thereof chargeable on any goods, and it is not possible to ascertain the
relevant time of importation or exportation specified in section 78 of this Act, that duty or rate shall be
determined as if the goods had been imported or exported, as the case may be, without entry at the
time when the proceedings were commenced.
183. Power to retain measurements, etc., taken during detention in certain cases
(1) Where a person suspected of fraudulently evading payment of duty due on any goods, or
evading a prohibition in respect thereto, is detained for any period not exceeding 24 hours by an officer
in exercise of his powers under section 8 of this Act and proceedings, whether or not a charge is
preferred in respect thereof, are thereupon or thereafter compounded under the provisions of this Act,

-- 93 of 188 --

any measurements, photographs, or fingerprint impression taken under the authority of the Police Act
during any such detention may be retained and kept in the custody of the police.
[Cap. P19.]
(2) Accordingly, section 30 (1) of the Police Act shall in any such case be read and construed as if
the proviso of that section (which requires in certain cases the disposal of measurements, etc., so taken)
had been omitted, so however that measurements, photographs or fingerprint impressions retained
under the powers conferred by the foregoing subsection shall not be received in evidence without the
consent of the judge or magistrate hearing the case, in any prosecution of a person for an offence
thereafter committed otherwise than under this Act.
184. Appeals by prosecutor from court of summary jurisdiction
It is declared for the avoidance of doubt that, without prejudice to any right to require the statement of
a case for the opinion of a superior court, a prosecutor may appeal to a superior court against any
decision of a court of summary jurisdiction in proceedings for an offence under the customs and excise
laws.
185. Application of penalties
Any sum paid or recovered on account of any fine imposed under the customs and excise laws and all
costs awarded in any proceedings relating to customs and excise to the Board or to any person
discharging any duty under those laws shall be accounted for and paid to the Board, or as it may direct.
186. Power of Board to compound proceedings, etc.
The Board may‐
(a) 	without prejudice to the provisions of section 174 of the Constitution of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria 1999 (which relates to the power of the Attorney‐General of the
Federation to institute, continue or discontinue criminal proceedings against any person
in any court of law) and subject to such directions, whether general or special, as may
be given by the Attorney‐General of the Federation, stay or compound any proceedings
for an offence or for the condemnation of anything forfeited under the customs and
excise laws; or
[Cap. C23.]
(b) 	without prejudice to the generality of section 5 of this Act and subject to such
directions, whether general or special, as may be given by the Minister, restore anything
forfeited or seized under the customs and excise law.
187. Proof of certain documents, etc.

-- 94 of 188 --

(1) If, in any court any book or document in the official custody of the Board or any officer is
required to be used as evidence as to the transactions to which it refers, copies thereof or of extracts
therefrom certified by the Board or the proper officer shall be admissible for that purpose, without
production of the original.
(2) In any proceedings under the customs and excise laws, certificates and copies of official
documents purporting to be certified under the hand and seal or stamp of office of any of the principal
officers of customs or of customs and excise in a Commonwealth country, or of any Nigerian Consul or
Vice‐Consul in any foreign country, shall be sufficient evidence of the matters therein stated, unless the
contrary be proved.
188. Proof of certain other matters
(1) An averment in any process in proceedings under the customs and excise laws‐
(a) 	that those proceedings were instituted by the order of the Board; or
(b) 	that any person is or was an officer or police officer; or
(c) 	that any person is or was appointed or authorised by the Board to discharge, or is
engaged by the order or with the concurrence of the Board in the discharge of, any
duty; or
(d) 	that the Board is or is not satisfied as to any matter as to which it is required by any
provision of the customs and excise laws to be satisfied; or
(e) 	that any goods thrown overboard, staved or destroyed were so dealt with in order to
prevent the seizure of those goods; or
(f) 	that any person was engaged in, or any ship, aircraft, vehicle or other thing was
employed or used in, the enforcement of the customs and excise laws; or
(g) 	that the offence was committed or that any act was done in a specified place in Nigeria,
shall unless the contrary is proved be sufficient evidence of the matter in question.
(2) Where, in any proceedings relating to customs or excise, any question arises as to the place
from which any goods have been brought or as to whether or not‐
(a) 	any duty has been paid or secured in respect of any goods; or
(b) 	any duty alleged to be payable is correctly assessed; or
(c) 	any goods or other things whatsoever are of the description or nature alleged in the process; or
(d) 	any goods have been lawfully imported or lawfully unloaded from any ship, aircraft or vehicle;
or

-- 95 of 188 --

(e) 	any goods have been lawfully loaded into any ship, aircraft or vehicle or lawfully exported; or
(f) 	any goods were lawfully brought to any place for the purpose of being loaded into any ship,
aircraft or vehicle or exported; or
(g) 	any goods are or were goods prohibited to be imported, exported or carried coastwise,
then, where those proceedings are brought by or against the Attorney‐General of the Federation, the
Board or an officer, or having been commenced by the police, are continued by the Board or an officer,
the burden of proof shall lie upon the other party to the proceedings.
189. Evidence of officers
If, in any proceedings under the customs and excise laws, the question arises whether any person is an
officer, his own evidence thereof shall be deemed sufficient unless the contrary be proved.
190. Guilty knowledge or intent
In any prosecution for an offence under the customs and excise laws, it shall not be necessary to prove
knowledge or intent, but where the prosecution is in respect of an offence of doing any thing knowingly
or recklessly or with a specified intent, the onus of disproving that he did such thing knowingly or
recklessly or with such intent shall be on the defendant.
PART XII
Miscellaneous
191. Sales under the customs laws
The Sales by Auction Act shall not apply to sales under the customs and excise laws when conducted by
an officer authorised by the Board to conduct such sales.
[Cap. 1871958 Ed.]
192. Recovery of Board's expenses in refunding excess payments of duty
Where a claim is made to the Board for the repayment of any sum in respect of an amount paid by way
of duty in excess of the amount chargeable in respect of that duty, the Board may, if it thinks fit, require
the claimant to defray, in accordance with such reasonable scales as the Board may determine, the
administrative expenses incurred by the Board in connection with the repayment.
193. Savings
(1) All orders, regulations, directions, terms, conditions, restrictions or forms having effect
immediately before the commencement of this Act under any enactment repealed by this Act relating to
any matter with respect to which the President, the Minister or the Board has under this Act power to
make orders or regulations or to give directions or impose terms, conditions or restrictions shall, unless

-- 96 of 188 --

and until revoked or varied as the case may be, by the President, the Minister, or by the Board and so far
as is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, have effect as if made, given, imposed or directed
under that power.
(2) Any appointment of or by and any authority or licence granted or approval given by, the
President, the Minister or any officer under any Act repealed by this Act and in force immediately before
the commencement of this Act shall have effect as if made, granted or given by the Federal Civil Service
Commission, the Board or the Director as the case may be, under the corresponding provisions of this
Act.
[L.N. 139 of 1965.]
(3) Any document referring to any Act repealed by this Act shall, unless the contrary intention
appears, be construed as referring to the corresponding provision of this Act.
194. Establishment of the Customs and Excise Preventive Service
(1) The President may make regulations for the establishment of a Customs and Excise
Preventive Service and the terms and conditions of service therein.
(2) Members of the Preventive Service established in accordance with regulations made under
subsection (1) of this section may, by an order in writing of the Board and under arrangements to be
agreed between the Board and the Inspector‐General of Police be seconded for training to the Nigeria
Police Force.
(3) During the period of any such secondment for training, a member of the Preventive Service
shall for the purposes of discipline, rank and training in accordance with the Police Act and the Police
Regulations, be deemed to hold the rank of a recruit in the Nigeria Police Force, or such other rank as
may be agreed with the Inspector‐General of Police and specified in the order of the Board, and, subject
to any necessary delegation by the Federal Civil Service Commission, shall be liable to be dealt with by a
superior officer accordingly, save that any punishment of dismissal which may be imposed under such
Act or regulations shall be subject to the approval of the Board and not of the Inspector‐General of
Police or a Commissioner.
[Cap p19]
(4) During the period of any such secondment for training, a member of the Preventive Service
shall be entitled to the same exemptions in respect of any enactment relating to arms and ammunition
as is applicable in respect of a recruit in the Nigeria Police Force (or in respect of such other rank as may
be specified as aforesaid).
195. Possession of arms by members of the Customs and Excise Preventive Service, etc.

-- 97 of 188 --

(1) Notwithstanding anything in any other enactment, it shall be lawful for any member of the
Customs Preventive Service not below the rank of Assistant Superintendent to have firearms and
ammunition in his possession or under his control on such occasions as may be specified by regulations.
(2) Provision shall be made by regulations for the safe custody of firearms and ammunition
provided in pursuance of subsection (1) of this section.
[1962 No. 26.]
(3) The authorisation to possess and control arms and ammunition given under subsection (1) of
this section to members of the Customs Preventive Service not below the rank of Assistant
Superintendent shall extend to officers of that service not below the rank of Senior Preventive Officer,
and to members of that service below that rank when, but only when, they are acting under the
personal supervision of such an officer.
[1962 No. 38.]
(4) For the purposes of sections 194 and 195 of this Act‐
"ammunition" and "firearms" have the same meaning as in the Firearms Act;
[Cap. F28.]
"Preventive Service" means the Customs and Excise Preventive Service established by
regulations made under section 194 of this Act;
"regulations" means regulations made under section 194 of this Act.
_____________________