1. 	Registration of voters, etc.
(1) The Independent National Electoral Commission (in this Act referred to as "the Commission")
shall carry out the registration of persons qualified to vote and maintain and revise the register of voters
compiled under this Act.
(2) A person shall be eligible to be registered as a voter in the area where he resides if‐
(a) 	he is a citizen of Nigeria;
(b) 	he is resident in Nigeria;
(c) 	he has attained the minimum age of eighteen years.
(3) The Commission shall compile a new register of voters from a preliminary list of voters
obtained from the registration of all persons qualified to vote, and in any other manner as the
Commission may think fit.
(4) A registration officer or an assistant registration officer and any person authorised by him
shall, for any purpose connected with the registration of voters, be present at the registration centre
between the hours of 8 o'clock in the morning and 6 o'clock in the evening and may make such enquiries
as may be deemed necessary for the performance of his duties.

-- 2 of 21 --

(5) Any of the persons referred to in subsection (4) of this section engaged in the registration of
voters shall carry an identity card provided by the Commission as evidence of his authority to register
voters residing in the registration unit.
(6) A person engaged in the registration of voters shall in respect of his unit‐
(a) 	exercise the utmost care in preparing the list of voters to be known as the preliminary
list; and
(b) 	take all necessary precautions to ensure that the preliminary list, when completed,
contains the principal names by which every registered voter is usually or may be known
and his address, and that the list does not contain the name of any person who is not
qualified to vote.
(7) Every preliminary list compiled under this Act shall be displayed in the constituency to which
it relates in such a manner and in such places as the Commission may direct and no register of voters
shall be printed or used for the purpose of any election until all claims and objections have been dealt
with in the prescribed manner.
(8) When the claims and objections to a preliminary list have been dealt with as required by
section 8 of this Act, it shall be printed in such number of volumes, which shall be bound and paged with
the pages numbered consecutively, as directed by the Commission and be published as the register of
voters.
(9) The register of voters shall contain in respect of every person, the particulars required in
Form EC.1A in the Schedule to this Act, including the principal name and such one or more other names
by which a person is usually or may be known and his address which, for the purposes of this subsection,
may be the name of a village or, in the case of a town, the name of the street, if the Commission thinks
fit, but no person shall be registered under a principal name alone being a single name or without his
address.
[Schedule.]
(10) A person whose name appears in the register of voters shall be entitled to vote at any
election conducted by the Commission.
2. 	Revision of the register of voters
(1) The register of voters in every constituency may be revised before any election.
(2) The Commission shall in any area in which a revision is to be carried out and in such manner
as it thinks fit, invite applications, for inclusion in the register of voters, from persons claiming to be
entitled because of age, change of residence or any other sufficient reason as the Commission may
deem reasonable.

-- 3 of 21 --

(3) An application for inclusion in the register of voters shall be in Form EC.1 in the Schedule to
this Act and shall be made within the time prescribed for such application, by the applicant in person;
but if the applicant is an illiterate person, any person who is literate may assist him.
[Schedule.]
(4) The registration officer shall include the names of persons to which subsection (2) of this
section applies in a list to be known as the supplementary list.
(5) The supplementary list shall, with the existing register of voters, comprise a new preliminary
list and the provisions of this Act as to the preliminary list shall apply and have effect accordingly.
3. 	Registration cards
(1) The Commission shall issue registration cards in Form. EC.1G in the Schedule to this Act to
persons included in the preliminary list.
[Schedule.]
(2) Each such registration card shall be numbered, bear the stamp of the Commission and any
relevant particulars as may be required by the Commission.
(3) The Commission may design new registration cards from time to time as it thinks fit and such
new registration cards shall be the valid authority for voting at any election.
4. 	Registration agents
(1) A political party may, by notice in writing by an officer of the party and addressed to the
electoral officer of the local government area, appoint a person, in this Act referred to as a "registration
agent", to attend at each registration centre in the constituency where the registration of voters or
revision of the register of voters is being effected.
(2) The notice shall set out the name and address of the registration agent and be given by the
officer of the political party or his representative to the electoral officer not later than ten days before
the date for the registration of voters or revision of the register of voters.
(3) A registration agent shall be a person ordinarily resident in the State constituency in respect
of which he is appointed.
5. 	Duty of a registration agent
The registration agent shall‐

-- 4 of 21 --

(a) 	ensure the good conduct of his party supporters during the registration or revision
exercise;
(b) 	sign the certificate of daily registration in Form EC1B in the Schedule to this Act at the
end of each day:
Provided that any failure to sign the said form shall not invalidate the collation of registered voters for
any such day.
[Schedule.]
6. 	Display of the existing register of voters
(1) The registration officer shall display the existing register of voters for a period of not less
than 21 days at each registration centre or such other places within the constituency as the Commission
thinks fit.
(2) Any person eligible to register whose name is omitted in the existing register may apply
within the 21 days of the display of the existing register, by notice in writing to the registration centre in
Form EC2 in the Schedule to this Act, to have his name and address inserted in the preliminary list.
7. 	Notice of display of the preliminary list
(1) Where it is necessary to display any preliminary list under this Act, the registration officer
shall prepare copies of the whole or any part of the list, and shall display copies of the preliminary list in
each registration centre and such other places within a constituency as the Commission thinks fit and
each list shall bear the date of its display.
(2) The registration officer shall attach on each preliminary list a notice stating‐
(a) 	that within five days of the display of the list, claims in respect of omissions or for
correction of any item in the list, may be made;
(b) 	that, within the same period, objections may be made under the Act to the inclusion of
any name in the list; and
(c) 	that claims in the form EC.2 or objections in the form EC.3 respectively in the Schedule
to this Act may be obtained at local government electoral offices or such other public
places throughout the constituency as shall be stated in the notice.
[Schedule.]

-- 5 of 21 --

(3) Copies of the list or part thereof as displayed shall be available for inspection free of charge
by members of the public at local government electoral offices or such other public places throughout
the constituency as the Commission may direct, and copies may be inspected at those places during
normal office hours for not less than five days after the display of the preliminary list.
8. 	Claims and objections
(1) Any person eligible to be registered may, if his name is omitted or incorrectly stated in the
preliminary list, claim within twelve days of the display of the preliminary list, by notice in writing to the
registration officer in form EC.2 in the Schedule to this Act, to have his name and address inserted or to
have any such entry amended.
(2) Any person may, within 21 days of the display of the preliminary list, by notice in writing to
the registration officer in the Form EC.3 in the Schedule to this Act, object to the inclusion of any other
name appearing therein, as being the name of a person not entitled to inclusion in that list.
9. 	Revising officer for hearing of claims, etc.
(1) The Commission may appoint as a revising officer any fit person to hear and determine
claims and objections to an entry in or omission from the preliminary list; and may appoint such number
of other persons as it thinks necessary to assist the revising officer.
(2) Any person appointed as a revising officer shall have the powers of a registration officer and
may, for the purposes of his duties under this Act, administer any oath necessary at a hearing.
10. 	Power to make rules for hearing of claims, etc.
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Commission may make rules prescribing the time for
hearing any claim or objection and the procedure at the hearing.
(2) Where a claim is made under this Act, the revising officer, after hearing the applicant and
any evidence in support, shall, if he is satisfied that the claim has been established, enter the name and
address of the applicant in the preliminary list or make such other corrections as may be necessary.
(3) Where an objection is made under this Act, the revising officer shall give notice of the
objection in such manner as he thinks fit; and if, after hearing the parties concerned and any relevant
evidence, he is satisfied that the objection is sustained, he shall amend the entry.
11. 	Completion of preliminary list

-- 6 of 21 --

(1) The registration officer shall amend the preliminary list‐
(a) 	to give effect to a decision on any claim or objection; or
(b) 	to delete any duplicate entry; or
(c) 	to delete the names of persons who are dead or disqualified; or
(d) 	to delete the names of persons who do not comply with the provisions of section 2 of
this Act.
(2) Where a preliminary list is amended to give effect to a decision to include the name of a
voter, the registration officer shall at the same time issue to the person whose name is included in that
list a registration card in Form EC.1G in the Schedule to this Act.
[Schedule.]
(3) If the registration officer or the Commission has reasonable cause to believe that a person is
registered in more than one place either in the same constituency or in different constituencies, the
registration officer or the Commission, as the case may be, shall make such alterations or corrections in
the preliminary list as are necessary.
(4) No correction under subsection (3) of this section shall be made without notice to the person
affected and the giving of reasonable time for the receipt of objections to the proposed correction and,
if necessary, for any hearing in respect thereof.
(5) Every notice required to be given under this section shall be in writing and may be‐
(a) 	served upon the person affected by delivering it at or posting it to his address as shown
in the preliminary list; or
(b) 	exhibited at such local government council offices or local government electoral offices
or other public place in the vicinity of the ordinary residence of the person as shown in
the preliminary list.
12. 	Publication of preliminary list
(1) The registration officer shall‐
(a) 	not later than thirty days from the date when the preliminary list was first displayed or
within such extended period as the Commission may allow, make such corrections in the
preliminary list, and he shall forward the list to the Commission;

-- 7 of 21 --

(b) 	number the names in the preliminary list in such manner as the Commission may direct;
and after endorsing and signing a certificate of verification on the preliminary list, he
shall forward the list to the Commission.
(2) The preliminary list shall be printed and published by the Commission on such date as the
Commission, after considering any alterations or amendments recommended by the appropriate
registration officer, may deem fit.
(3) For the purpose of this section, the preliminary list shall be deemed to be printed if it is
produced in a visible form by lithography or any means which the Commission considers expedient in
the circumstances.
13. 	Inspection of register of voters
(1) The preliminary list in respect of each constituency when printed and published by the
Commission shall be the register of voters for that constituency; and a copy of the register of voters,
when published, may be inspected free of charge by members of the public during normal office hours
at such place in the constituency as the Commission shall, in writing, appoint.
(2) Copies of the register of voters shall be made available by the Commission to the political
parties at such price as it thinks reasonable.
14. 	Correction of register of voters
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, where the Commission is satisfied that there is a
mistake in the register of voters, it shall not later than seven days before the date appointed for an
election, give notice in such manner as it thinks fit of its intention to correct the mistake; and the
correction may be made accordingly.
(2) Nothing in this section as to limitation of time or the giving of notice shall apply where the
Commission is satisfied that it is in the public interest to make the correction without waiting for any
time or giving any notice.
(3) A registered voter, who at any time before the election, is resident in a constituency other
than that in which he is registered, may apply to the resident electoral commissioner of the State where
he is resident for his name to be entered on the transferred voter's list for the constituency.
(4) An application under the provisions of subsection (3) of this section shall be accompanied by
the applicant's registration card as in Form EC.1G in the Schedule to this Act and be made‐
[Schedule.]

-- 8 of 21 --

(a) 	not less than thirty days before nomination day in the constituency where the applicant
is resident; and
(b) 	not less than thirty days before nomination day in the constituency where the applicant
is registered.
(5) The resident electoral commissioner to whom an application is made under the provisions of
this section shall cause the applicant's name to be entered in the transferred voter's list if he is satisfied
that the applicant is resident in a polling area in his constituency and is registered in some other
constituency.
(6) Whenever an electoral officer on the direction of the resident electoral commissioner enters
the name of any person on the transferred voter's list for his constituency, he shall‐
(a) 	assign that person to a polling station or a voting area in his constituency and indicate in
the list the voting station or polling area to which that person is assigned;
(b) 	send a copy of the entry to the electoral officer of the constituency where the person
whose name has been so entered was originally registered and upon receipt of the
entry, the electoral officer shall delete the voter's name from the voter's list.
(7) Every person whose name is entered on the transferred voter's list for a constituency shall
be entitled to vote at any election in the polling station or polling area to which he is assigned.
15. 	Power of the Resident Electoral Commissioner to entertain late registration
(1) Any person eligible to register as a voter in any constituency, but who was at the time of the
registration or revision exercise unable to have his name included in the register of voters by reason of
being out of Nigeria during the exercise or for any other cause as the Commission may deem reasonable
in the circumstances, may apply to the resident electoral commissioner of the State in which he is
resident for his name to be included in the register of voters in the constituency in which he is resident.
(2) An application under the provisions of subsection (1) of this section shall be made not less
than thirty days before nomination day in the constituency where the applicant is resident.
(3) The resident electoral commissioner to whom an application is made under the provisions of
this section shall cause the applicant's name to be entered in the appropriate register of voters if he is
satisfied that the applicant is resident in the registration unit in his constituency.
(4) Every person whose name is entered in the register of voters for a constituency shall be
entitled to vote at any election in the polling station or a voting area in which he is registered.
16. 	Use of the register

-- 9 of 21 --

The register of voters shall be used for the purpose of determining the persons entitled to vote
at every election to the office of the President and Vice‐President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the
Governor and Deputy Governor of a State, the Mayor and Deputy Mayor of the Federal Capital Territory,
Abuja, the chairman and deputy chairman of a local government, the National Assembly and the House
of Assembly of a State, the Mayoral Council of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, a local government
council and an area council of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja.
17. 	Offences in relation to registration
Any person who‐
(a) 	without lawful authority, destroys, mutilates, defaces or removes or makes any
alteration in any notice or document required for the purpose of registration or the
revision of the register of voters under this Act; or
(b) 	knowingly gives false information or makes a false statement with reference to any
application for inclusion of his name in the register of voters or with reference to any
objection to the retention or inclusion of the name of any person in the register of
voters; or
(c) 	presents himself to be or does an act whereby he is by any name of description
whatsoever, included in the register of voters for more than one unit in which he is
entitled to be registered; or
(d) 	publishes any statement, rumour or report which he knows to be false or does not
believe to be true so as to prevent persons who are qualified from applying for inclusion
in the register of voters; or
(e) 	impedes or obstructs a registration officer or any person acting on his behalf in the
performance of his duties; or
(f) 	without proper authority, carries the identity card of a registration officer or assistant
registration officer,
is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of two years or to fine of
N5,000 or to both such imprisonment and fine.
18. 	Offences in relation to improper use of registration cards, etc.
Any person who‐
(a) 	being entitled to a registration card, hands it, when received by him, to some person
other than an officer appointed and acting in the course of his duty under this Act; or

-- 10 of 21 --

(b) 	not being an officer and acting in the course of his duty under this Act, receives a
registration card in the name of some other person; or
(c) 	without lawful excuse, has in his possession more than one registration card,
is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of two years
or to a fine of N5,000 or to both such imprisonment and fine.
19. 	Offences in relation to dereliction of duty, etc.
Any registration officer, assistant registration officer, revising officer, registration agent,
member or staff of the Commission by whatever name called, who, without lawful authority‐
(a) 	registers or aids the registration of any person by proxy or copies into the preliminary
list the name and particulars of any person; or
(b) 	issues to any person more than one registration card; or
(c) 	issues to any political party a registration card; or
(d) 	includes any person in the register of voters for more than one unit or more than once
in the register of voters for a unit in which he is entitled to register,
is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of five years or to a fine of
N10,000 or to both such imprisonment and fine.
20. 	Offences by certain officials and persons, etc.
(1) Any person to whom this section applies who is for the time being under duty to discharge
any function relating to the registration of voters or revision of the register of voters, is guilty of an
offence, if he, without reasonable cause, before or during the registration of voters or revision of the
register of voters, or at any time thereafter‐
(a) 	fails to perform or discharge such duty; or
(b) 	performs such duty fraudulently, negligently or recklessly; or
(c) 	commits any act or omission in breach of such duty.
(2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) of this section, shall be liable on
conviction to a fine of N10,000 or to imprisonment for a term of five years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.

-- 11 of 21 --

(3) The persons to whom this section applies are registration officers, assistant registration
officers, revising officers, officials and members of staff of the Commission, party registration agents, or
any other officer or officers by whatever name called.
21. 	Forms
The forms set out in the Schedule to this Act, or such other forms as may be designed by the
Commission, from time to time, may be used for the purposes of this Act.
22. 	Short title
This Act may be cited as the Elections (Registration, etc. of Voters) Act.
________________