2. In addition to the functions conferred on it by the Constitution, the Commission
shall have power to:
(a) conduct voter and civic education.
(b) promote knowledge of sound democratic election processes.
(c) conduct any referendum required to be conducted pursuant to the
provision of the 1999 Constitution or any other law or Act of the National
Assembly.
Functions of the
Commission
3. -(1) There shall be established for the Commission a fund to be known as
Independent National Electoral Commission Fund.
(2) There shall be paid into the Fund established in pursuance to subsection (1)
of this Section-
(a) such sums and payments available to the Commission for carrying out
its functions and purposes under the Constitution and this Act and all other
assets from time to time accruing to the Commission.
(b) such sums as may, from time to time, be credited to the Fund by way
of interest from investments made from the fund.
(c) aids, grants that may from time to time accrue to the Commission in
order to carry out its functions.
(3) Disbursements from the fund shall be made in accordance with rules
established by the Commission.
Establishment of
the Independent
National Electoral
Commission Fund

-- 1 of 93 --

2 | P a g e
4. -(1) The Commission may, from time to time, apply the proceeds of the Fund
established pursuant to section 3(1) of this Act-
(a) to defray the cost of administration of the Commission.
(b) to reimburse members or members of any Committee set up by the
Commission for such expenses as may be expressly authorized by the
Commission in accordance with the rates approved by it;
(c) to the payment of the salaries, fees or other remuneration or allowances
and pensions, superannuation allowance and gratuities payable to the officers
and servants of the Commission, so however that no payment of any kind
under this paragraph (except such as may be expressly authorized as
aforesaid) shall be made to any person who is in receipt of emoluments from
the Government of the Federation or the Government of a State;
(d) to the maintenance of any property vested in the Commission; and
(e) to and in connection with all or any of its functions under this Act.
Expenditure of the
Commission
5. -(1) The Commission shall submit to the Ministry of Finance not later than 31st
August in each financial year an estimate of its expenditure and income
(including payments to the Independent National Electoral Commission) during
the next succeeding financial year.
(2)The Commission shall keep proper accounts in respect of each financial year
(and proper records in relation thereto) and shall cause its accounts to be
audited as soon as possible after the end of each financial year by the Auditor
General of the Federation.
Annual Estimates
and Accounts
6. - (1) There shall be established in each State of the Federation and Federal
Capital Territory, an office of the Commission which shall perform such
functions as may be assigned to it, from time to time, by the Commission.
(2) A person appointed to the office of a Resident Electoral Commissioner shall;
(a) be answerable to the Commission; and
(b) hold office for a period of five years.
(3) The Resident Electoral Commissioner appointed pursuant to the Constitution
may only be removed by the President, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed
Forces of the federation acting on an address supported by 2/3 majority of the
Senate praying that he be so removed for inability to discharge the functions of
the office (whether arising from infirmity of mind or body or any other cause)
or for misconduct.
Establishment of
office in each State
and Federal Capital
Territory
7. -(1) The Commission may appoint one or more committees to carry out any of
its functions under this Act.
Committees of the
Commission
PART II - STAFF OF THE COMMISSION
- (1) There shall be a Secretary to the Commission who shall-
(a) be appointed by the Commission;
Secretary to the
Commission

-- 2 of 93 --

3 | P a g e
8.
(b) have such qualifications and experience to be determined by the
Commission as are appropriate for a person required to perform the
functions of his office under this Act.
(2) Subject to the general direction of the Commission, the Secretary shall be-
(a) responsible for keeping of proper records of the proceedings of the
Commission;
(b) the head of the Commission’s secretariat and be responsible for the
administration
thereof; and
(c) responsible for the direction and control of all other employees of the
Commission with the approval of the Commission.
(3) The Commission shall have power to appoint, dismiss and exercise
disciplinary control over its staff as may be prescribed by this Act or any other
enactment or law.
(4) All employees of the Commission appointed pursuant to subsection (3) of
this section excluding such as are appointed on a temporary basis for an
honorarium shall have the same right and obligation as provided for in the
Pension Reform Act.
9.
PART III – NATIONAL REGISTER OF VOTERS AND VOTERS’
REGISTRATION.
-(1) The Commission shall compile, maintain, and update on a continuous
basis, a National Register of Voters, in this Act referred to as the ―Register of
Voters‖ which shall include the names of all persons entitled to vote in any
Federal, State or Local Government or Area Council elections.
(2) The Commission shall maintain as part of the National Register of Voters, a
register of voters for each State of the Federation and for the Federal Capital
Territory;
(3) The Commission shall maintain as part of the Register of Voters for each
State and the Federal Capital Territory, a Register of Voters for each Local
Government/Area Council within the State and the Federal Capital Territory.
(4) The register shall contain in respect of every person the particulars required
in the Form prescribed by the Commission.
(5) The registration of voters, updating and revision of the register of voters
under this section shall stop not later than 60 days before any election covered
by this Act.
(6) The registration of voters shall be at the registration centers designated for
that purpose by the Commission and notified to the public.
Continuous

-- 3 of 93 --

4 | P a g e
10. -(1) Without prejudice to section 10(5), there shall be continuous registration of
all persons qualified to be registered voters.
(2) Each applicant for registration under the continuous registration system
shall appear in person at the registration venue with any of the following
documents, namely—
(a) birth or baptismal certificate;
(b) national passport, identity card or driver’s licence; or
(c) any other document that will prove the identity, age and nationality
of the applicant.
(3) The Commission shall within sixty days after each year make available to
every political party, the names and address of each person registered during
that year.
(4) When a general election is notified by the Commission pursuant to section
31 of this Act, the current official register of voters certified by the Commission
in accordance with the provision of this Act shall be the official voters’ register
for those elections.
(5) In the case of every bye-election conducted under this Act, the official
voters’ register for use at such elections shall be the existing current register
relating to the senatorial district or the constituency concerned.
(6) As soon as claims and objections have been dealt with or the period for
making claims and objections has expired, the supplementary list shall be
included in the revised register, which shall be certified by the Commission as
the official register of voters for the purposes of any election conducted under
this Bill and supercedes all previous registers.
Registration
11. - (1) For the purpose of maintaining and updating the Voters’ Register, the
Commission shall appoint such registration, revision or update officers as it may
require, provided that such officers shall not be members of any political party.
(2) Any person may raise an objection against any officer during the
registration or updating exercise provided that failure to raise such objection
shall not vitiate the register.
(3) The officers appointed under subsection (1) of this section shall exercise
such functions and duties as may be specified by the Commission, in
accordance with the provisions of this Act, and shall not be subject to the
direction or control of any person or authority other than the Commission in the
performance of their functions and duties.
Appointment of
officers
12. -(1) A person shall be qualified to be registered as a voter if such a person:
(a) is a citizen of Nigeria;
(b) has attained the age of eighteen years;
(c) is ordinarily resident, works in, originates from the Local
Qualification for
Registration

-- 4 of 93 --

5 | P a g e
Government/Area Council or Ward covered by the registration centre;
(d) presents himself to the registration officers of the Commission for
registration as a voter; and
(e) is not subject to any legal incapacity to vote under any law, rule or
regulations in force in Nigeria.
(2) No person shall register in more than one registration centre or register
more than once in the same registration centre.
(3) Any person who contravenes the provisions of subsection (2) of this section
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding N100,000
or imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or both.
13. -(1) A person who before the election is resident in a constituency other than
the one in which he was registered may apply to the Resident Electoral
Commissioner of the State where he is currently resident for his name to be
entered on the transferred voters List for the constituency.
(2) An application under subsection (1) of this section shall be accompanied by
the applicant's voters' card and shall be made not less than 30 days before the
date of an election in the constituency where the applicant is resident.
(3) The Resident Electoral Commissioner to whom an application is made under
the provision of this Section shall cause to be entered the applicant's name in
the Transferred Voters' List if he is satisfied that the applicant is resident in a
polling area in the constituency and is registered in another constituency.
(4) Whenever an Electoral Officer on the direction of the Resident Electoral
Commissioner enters the name of any person on the Transferred Voters' List for
his constituency he shall-
(a) assign that person to a polling unit or a polling area in his Constituency
and indicate in the list the Polling unit to which that person is assigned;
(b) issue the person with a new voters' card and retrieve his previous
voter’s card; and
(c) send a copy of the entry to the Electoral Officer of the constituency
where the person whose name has been so entered was originally
registered and upon receipt of this entry, that Electoral Officer shall delete
the name from his voters' list.
Transfer of
Registered voters.
14. In the performance of his or her duties under this Act, a registration officer and
an update officer shall -
(a) demand from any applicant the information necessary to enable him to
ascertain whether the applicant is qualified to be registered as a voter in
accordance with the provisions of this Act; and
(b) require any voter or applicant to complete an application form for the
purpose of the registration. However, in the case of an illiterate or disabled
person such application form may be completed by the registration officer on
the applicant’s request.
Demand for
information
regarding
registration
15. The Commission shall cause a voters’ register for each State to be printed, and Power to print and
issue register of

-- 5 of 93 --

6 | P a g e
any person or political party may obtain from the Commission, on payment of
such charges, a certified copy of any voters’ register for the State or for a Local
Government or Area Council or registration area within it.
voters
16. -(1) The Commission shall design, cause to be printed and control the issuance
of voters’ cards to voters whose names appear in the register.
(2) No voter shall hold more than one valid voters’ card.
(3) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) of this section commits an
offence and shall be liable on conviction, to a fine not exceeding N100,000 or
imprisonment not exceeding one year or both.
(4) The Commission may, whenever it considers it necessary, replace all or any
voters’ cards for the time being held by voters.
Powers to print
and issue voters’
card
17. Each electoral officer shall take custody of the voters register for his Local
Government Area under the general supervision of the Resident Electoral
Commissioner.
Custody of voters’
register
18. -(1) Whenever a Voter’s card is lost, destroyed, defaced, torn or otherwise
damaged, the owner of such card shall, not less than thirty (30) days before
polling day, apply in person to the Electoral Officer or any other officer duly
authorized for that purpose by the Resident Electoral Commissioner, stating the
circumstances of the loss, destruction, defacement or damage.
(2) If the Electoral Officer or any other officer is satisfied as to the
circumstances of the loss, destruction, defacement or damage of the Voters’
card, he shall issue to the voter another copy of the voters’ original voters’ card
with the word ―DUPLICATE‖ clearly marked or printed on it, showing the date
of issue.
(3) No person shall issue a duplicate voters’ card to any voter on polling day or
less than thirty (30) days before polling day.
(4) Any person who contravenes subsection (3) of this section commits an
offence and is liable on conviction, to a fine not exceeding N200,000 or
imprisonment not exceeding two years or both.
Power to issue
duplicate voters’
cards
19. -(1) Subject to the provisions of section 16(1) of this Act, the Commission shall,
by notice, appoint a period of not less than 5 days and not exceeding 14 days,
during which a copy of the voters’ register for each Local Government, Area
Council or ward shall be displayed for public scrutiny and during which period
any objection or complaint in relation to the names omitted or included in the
voters’ register or in relation to any necessary correction, shall be raised or
filed.
(2) During the period of the display of the Voters’ list under this Act, any person
may:
(a) raise an objection on the form prescribed by the Commission against
the inclusion in the supplementary Voters’ register of the name of a person
on grounds that the person is not qualified to be registered as a voter in
Display of the
copies of the
voters’ list

-- 6 of 93 --

7 | P a g e
the State, Local Government/Area Council, Ward or Registration Area or
that the name of a deceased person is included in the register; or
(b) make a claim on the form prescribed by the Commission that the name
of a person registered to vote has been omitted.
(3) Any objection or claim under subsection (2) of this section shall be
addressed to the Resident Electoral Commissioner through the Electoral Officer
in charge of the Local Government/Area Council.
20. The supplementary voters’ list shall be integrated with the voters’ register and
published not later than 30 days before a general election.
Time for
publication of
supplementary
voters’ register
21. -(1) The Commission may appoint as a Revision Officer any person to hear and
determine claims for and objection to any entry in or omission from the
preliminary list of voters and may appoint such number of other persons as it
deems necessary to assist the Revision Officer.
(2) Any person dissatisfied with the determination by a revision officer or
person or persons assisting a revision officer of his claims or objection as
mentioned in subsection (1) of this section, shall within seven days, appeal
against the decision to the Resident Electoral Commissioner in charge of that
State whose decision shall be final.
Revision officer for
hearing of claims,
etc.
22. The proprietary rights in any voters’ card issued to any voter shall vest in the
Commission.
Proprietary rights
in the voters’ card
23. -(1) Any person who -
(a) is in unlawful possession of any voter's card whether issued in the name of
any voter or not; or
(b) sells or attempts to sell or offers to sell any voter's card whether issued in
the name of any voter or not; or
(c) buys or offers to buy any voters’ card whether on his own behalf or on
behalf of any other person, commits an offence and shall be liable, on
conviction, to a fine not exceeding N500,000 or imprisonment not exceeding
two years or both.
Offences of buying
and selling voters’
cards
24. -(1) Any person who-
(a) makes a false statement in any application for registration as a voter
knowing it to be false;
(b) after demand or requisition made of him under this Act without just
cause, fails to give any such information as he or she possesses or does not
give the information within the time specified;
(c) in the name of any other person, whether living, dead or fictitious, signs
an application form for registration as a voter to have that other person
registered as a voter;
Offences relating
to registration of
voters

-- 7 of 93 --

8 | P a g e
(d) transmits or is concerned in transmitting to any person as genuine a
declaration relating to registration which is false in any material particular,
knowing it to be false;
(e) by himself or any other person procures the registration of himself or any
other person on a voters' register for a State, knowing that he or that other
person is not entitled to be registered on that voters' register or is already
registered on it or on another voters' register;
(f) by himself or any other person procures the registration of a fictitious
person;
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
N100,000 or imprisonment not exceeding one year or both.
(2) Any person who:
(a) by duress, including threats of any kind causes or induces any person or
persons
generally to refrain from registering as a voter or voters;
(b) in any way hinders another person from registering as a voter;
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction, to a fine not exceeding
N500,000 or imprisonment not exceeding five years.
25.
PART IV - PROCEDURE AT ELECTION
(1) Elections into the offices of the President and Vice-President, the Governor
and Deputy Governor of a State, and to the Membership of the Senate, the
House of Representatives and the House of Assembly of each State of the
Federation shall be held in the following order:
a. Senate and House of Representatives;
b. Presidential election; and
C. State House of Assembly Governorship elections.
(2) Elections into the offices of the Chairman and Vice-Chairman and
membership of an Area Council shall be held on the dates to be appointed by
the Independent National Electoral Commission.
Days of Election
26. -(1) Where a date has been appointed for the holding of an election, and there
is reason to believe that a serious breach of the peace is likely to occur if the
election is proceeded with on that date or it is impossible to conduct the
elections as a result of natural disasters or other emergencies, the Commission
may postpone the election and shall in respect of the area, or areas concerned,
appoint another date for the holding of the postponed election, provided that
such reason for the postponement is cogent and verifiable.
(2) Where an election is postponed under this Act on or after the last date for
the delivery of nomination papers, and a poll has to be taken between the
candidates nominated, the Electoral Officer shall, on a new date being
appointed for the election, proceed as if the date appointed were the date for
the taking of the poll between the candidates.
Postponement of
election

-- 8 of 93 --

9 | P a g e
(3) Where the Commission appoints a substituted date in accordance with
subsections (1) and (2) of this section, there shall be no return for the election
until polling has taken place in the area or areas affected.
(4) Notwithstanding the provision of subsection (3) of this section, the
Commission may, if satisfied that the result of the election will not be affected
by voting in the area or areas in respect of which substituted dates have been
appointed, direct that a return of the election be made.
(5) The decision of the Commission under subsection (4) may be challenged by
any of the contestants at a court or tribunal of competent jurisdiction and on
such challenge, the decision shall be suspended until the matter is determined.
27. -(1) The Results of all the elections shall be announced by-
(a) the Presiding Officer at the Polling unit;
(b) the Ward Collation Officer at the Ward Collation Centre;
(c) the Local Government or Area Council Collation Officer at the Local
Government/Area Council Collation Centre;
(d) the State Collation Officer at the State Collation Centre;
(2) The Returning Officer shall announce the result and declare the winner of
the election at:
(a) Ward Collation Centre in the case of Councillorship election in the Federal
Capital Territory;
(b) Area Council Collation Centre in the case of Chairmanship and Vice
Chairmanship election in the Federal Capital Territory;
(c) State Constituency Collation Centre in the case of State House of Assembly
election;
(d) Federal Constituency Collation Centre in the case of election to the House of
Representatives;
(e) Senatorial District Collation Centre in the case of election to the Senate;
(f) State Collation Centre in the case of election of a Governor of a State;
(g) National Collation Centre in the case of election of the President.
(h) the Chief Electoral Commissioner who shall be the Returning Officer at the
Presidential election.
Announcement of
election results
28. -(1) All staff appointed by the Commission taking part in the conduct of an
election shall affirm or swear before the High Court an Oath of Neutrality as in
the second schedule to this Act.
Oath of Neutrality
by election officers

-- 9 of 93 --

10 | P a g e
(2) All Electoral officers, Presiding Officers, Returning Officers and all staff
appointed by the Commission taking part in the conduct of an election shall
affirm or swear to an Oath of Loyalty and Neutrality indicating that they would
not accept bribe or gratification from any person, and shall perform their
functions and duties impartially and in the interests of the Federal Republic of
Nigeria without fear or favour.
29. -(1) The Commission shall for the purposes of an election or registration of
voters under this Act appoint and designate such officers as may be required
provided that no person who is a member of a Political Party or who has openly
expressed support for any candidate shall be so appointed.
(2) The Officers appointed under sub-section (1) of this section shall exercise
such functions and duties as may be specified by the Commission, in
accordance with the provisions of this Act, and shall not be subject to the
direction or control of any person or authority other than the Commission in the
performance of their functions and duties.
Appointment of
other officers for
the conduct of
registration of
voters and
elections
30. -(1) The Commission shall not later than 90 days before the day appointed for
holding of an election under this Act publish a notice in each State of the
Federation and the Federal Capital Territory-
(a) stating the date of the election; and
(b) appointing the place at which nomination papers are to be delivered.
(2) The notice shall be published in each constituency in respect of which an
election is to be held.
(3) In the case of a by-election, the Commission shall, not later than 14 days
before the date appointed for the election, publish a notice stating the date of
the election.
Notice of election
31. -(1) Every political party shall not later than 60 days before the date appointed
for a general election under the provisions of this Act, submit to the
Commission in the prescribed forms the list of the candidates the Party
proposes to sponsor at the elections.
(2) The list or information submitted by each candidate shall be accompanied
by an Affidavit sworn to by the candidate at the High Court of a State,
indicating that he has fulfilled all the constitutional requirements for election
into that office.
(3) The Commission shall, within 7 days of the receipt of the personal
particulars of the candidate, publish same in the constituency where the
candidate intends to contest the election.
(4) Any person may apply to the Commission for a copy of nomination form,
affidavit and any other document submitted by a candidate at an election and
the Commission shall, upon payment of a prescribed fee, issue such person
with a certified copy of document within 14 days‖.
(5) Any person who has reasonable grounds to believe that any information
given by a candidate in the affidavit or any document submitted by that
candidate is false may file a suit at the High Court of a State or Federal High
Submission of list
of candidates and
their affidavits by
political parties

-- 10 of 93 --

11 | P a g e
Court against such person seeking a declaration that the information contained
in the affidavit is false.
(6) If the Court determines that any of the information contained in the
affidavit or any document submitted by that candidate is false, the Court shall
issue an order disqualifying the candidate from contesting the election.
(7) A candidate for an election shall, at the time of submitting the prescribed
form, furnish the Commission with an identifiable address in the State where he
intends to contest the election at which address all documents and court
processes from either the Commission or any other person shall be served on
him.
(8) A political party which presents to the Commission the name of a candidate
who does not meet the qualifications stipulated in this section, shall be guilty of
an offence and on conviction shall be liable to a maximum fine of N500,000.00.
32. -(1) A candidate for an election shall be nominated in writing by such number
of persons whose names appear on the register of voters in the constituency as
the Commission may prescribe.
(2) No person shall nominate more than one person for an election to the same
office.
(3) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) of this section shall be guilty of
an offence and on conviction be liable to a maximum fine of N100,000 or
imprisonment for three months or both but his action shall not invalidate the
nomination.
(4) No account shall be taken of the signature of a person on a nomination
paper where the candidate had died, withdrawn or where the nomination paper
was held invalid.
(5) No person who has subscribed as a nominator shall so long as the
candidate stands nominated withdraw his nomination.
Prohibition of
double nomination
33.
34.
No Political Party shall be allowed to change or substitute its candidate whose
name has been submitted pursuant to Section 32 of this of this Act, except in
the case of death or withdrawal by the candidate;
The Commission shall, at least thirty days before the day of the election publish
by displaying or causing to be displayed at the relevant office(s) of the
Commission and on the Commission’s web site, a statement of the full names
and addresses of all candidates standing nominated.
Political parties
changing
candidates
Publication of
nomination
35. A candidate may withdraw his candidature by notice in writing signed by him
and delivered by himself to the Political party that nominated him for the
election and the political party shall convey such withdrawal to the Commission
and which shall only be allowed not later than 45 days to the election.
Withdrawal of
candidate
36. -(1) If after the time for the delivery of nomination paper and before the
commencement of the poll, a nominated candidate dies, the Chief National
Electoral Commissioner or the Resident Electoral Commissioner shall, being
satisfied of the fact of the death, countermand the poll in which the deceased
Death of a
candidate

-- 11 of 93 --

12 | P a g e
candidate was to participate and the Commission shall appoint some other
convenient date for the election within 14 days.
(2) The list of voters to be used at a postponed election shall be the official
voters register, which was to be used if the election had not been postponed.
37. Where a candidate knowingly allows himself to be nominated by more than
one political party and or in more than one constituency his nomination shall be
void.
Invalidity of
multiple
nomination
38. Where at the close of nomination there is no candidate validly nominated, the
Commission shall extend the time for nomination and fix a new date for the
election.
Failure of
Nomination
39. Subject to any other provisions of this Act, if after the latest time for the
delivery of nomination papers and the withdrawal of candidates for an election
under this Act, more than one person remains validly nominated, a poll shall be
taken.
Contested Election
40. A poll shall take place in accordance with the provisions of this Act with respect
to the following, that is-
(a) in the case of an election to the office of President or Governor of a State,
whether or not only one person is validly nominated in respect of such office;
and
(b) in the case of an election in respect of any other office, if after the expiry of
the time for delivery of nomination papers there is more than one person
standing nominated.
When poll is
required
41. -(1) If after the expiration of time for delivery of nomination papers and
withdrawal of candidates and the extension of time as provided for in this Act
there is only one person whose name is validly nominated in respect of an
election, other than to the office of the President or Governor, that person shall
be declared elected.
(2) Where a person is declared elected under the provision of subsection (1) of
this section, a declaration of Result Form as may be prescribed shall be
completed and copy thereof issued to the person by the Returning Officer while
the original of the form shall be returned to the Commission as in the case of a
contested election.
Uncontested
Election
42. The Commission shall establish sufficient number of Polling units in each
Registration Area and shall allot voters to such Polling units.
Establishment of
polling Units
43. The Commission shall provide suitable boxes for the conduct of elections.
(1) The forms to be used for the conduct of elections to the offices mentioned
in this Act and election petitions arising there from shall be determined by the
Commission.
(2) The Polling Agents shall be entitled to be present at the distribution of the
election materials from the office to the polling booth.
Ballot Boxes

-- 12 of 93 --

13 | P a g e
(3) A polling agent shall be entitled to be present at the distribution of election
materials, at voting, counting and the collation of election results.
(4) The Commission shall, before the commencement of voting in each
election, provide all election materials for the conduct of such election at the
polling unit.
44. -(1) The Commission shall prescribe the format of the ballot papers which shall
include the symbol adopted by the Political Party of the candidate and such
other information as it may require.
(2) The ballot papers shall be bound in booklets and numbered serially with
differentiating colours for each office being contested.
Format of ballot
papers
45. -(1) Each political party may by notice in writing addressed to the Electoral
Officer of the Local Government or Area Council, appoint a person to attend at
each polling unit and collation centre in the Local Government or Area Council
for which it has candidate and the notice shall set out the name and address of
the polling agent and be given to the Electoral Officer at least 7 days before the
date fixed for the election.
(2) PROVIDED that no person presently serving as Chairman or member of a
Local Government or Area Council, Commissioner of a State, Deputy Governor,
or Governor of a State, Minister or any other person holding political office
under any tier of Government and who has not resigned his appointment at
least three (3) months before the election shall serve as a polling agent of any
Political Party, either at the polling unit or at any centre designated for collation
of results of an election.
(3) Notwithstanding the requirement of subsection (1) of this section, a
candidate shall not be precluded from doing any act or thing which he has
appointed a polling agent to do on his behalf under this Act.
(4) Where in this Act, an act or thing is required or authorized to be done by or
in the presence of a Polling Agent, the non-attendance of the Polling Agent at
the time and place appointed for the act or thing or refusal by the Polling Agent
to do the act or thing shall not, if the act or thing is otherwise done properly,
invalidate the act or thing.
Polling Agents
46. -(1)The Commission shall, not later than 14 days before the day of the election,
cause to be published, in such manner as it may deem fit, a notice specifying -
(a) the day and hours fixed for the poll;
(b) the persons entitled to vote; and
(c ) the location of the polling units.
Notice of Poll
47. Voting in any particular election under this Act shall take place on the same day
and time throughout the Federation.
Hour of Polls
48. -(1) At the hour fixed for opening of the poll, before the commencement of
voting, the Presiding Officer shall open the empty ballot box and show same to
Display of Ballot
boxes

-- 13 of 93 --

14 | P a g e
such persons as may lawfully be present at the Polling unit and shall then close
and seal the box in such manner as to prevent its being opened by
unauthorized person(s).
(2) The ballot box shall then be placed in full view of all present, and be so
maintained until the close of poll.
49. -(1) Any person intending to vote with his voter’s card, shall present himself to
a Presiding Officer at the polling unit in the constituency in which his name is
registered with his voter’s card.
(2) The Presiding Officer shall, on being satisfied that the name of the person is
on the Register of Voters, issue him a ballot paper and indicate on the Register
that the person has voted.
Issue of Ballot
Papers
50. A candidate or a Polling Agent may challenge the right of a person to receive a
ballot paper on such grounds and in accordance with such procedures as are
provided for in this Act.
Right to challenge
issue of Ballot
Paper
51. The Presiding Officer shall separate the queue between men and women if in
that area of the country the culture is such that it does not permit the mingling
of men and women in the same queue.
Separate queues
for men and
women
52. -(1) (a) Voting at an election under this Bill shall be by open secret ballot.
(b) The use of electronic voting machine for the time being is prohibited.
(2) A voter on receiving a ballot paper shall mark it in the manner prescribed by
the Commission.
(3) All ballots at an election under this Bill at any polling station shall be
deposited in the ballot box in the open view of the public.
Conduct of Poll by
Open Secret Ballot
53. -(1) No voter shall vote for more than one candidate or record more than one
vote in favour of any candidate at any one election.
(2) Where the votes cast at an election in any polling unit exceed the number
of registered voters in that polling unit, the result of the election for that polling
unit shall be declared null and void by the Commission and another election
may be conducted at a date to be fixed by the Commission where the result at
that polling unit may affect the overall result in the Constituency.
(3) Where an election is nullified in accordance with subsection (2) of this
section, there shall be no return for the election until another poll has taken
place in the affected area.
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (2) and (3) of this section the
Commission may, if satisfied that the result of the election will not substantially
be affected by voting in the area where the election is cancelled, direct that a
return of the election be made.
Over voting

-- 14 of 93 --

15 | P a g e
54. -(1) Where a voter makes any writing or mark on a ballot paper by which he
may be identified, such ballot paper shall be rejected provided that any print
resulting from the staining of the thumb of the voter in the voting compartment
shall not be or be deemed to be a mark of identification under this section.
(2) The Commission shall use indelible ink for any thumb mark by voters on
ballot papers.
Ballot not to be
marked by voter
for identification
55. A voter who by accident deals with his ballot paper in such a manner that it
may not be conveniently used for voting, may deliver it to the Presiding Officer
and if the Presiding Officer is satisfied that the ballot paper is spoilt he shall
issue another ballot paper to the voter in place of the ballot paper delivered up,
and the spoilt ballot paper shall be immediately marked cancelled by the
Presiding Officer.
Accidental
destruction or
marking of Ballot
Papers
56. -(1) A voter who is blind or is otherwise unable to distinguish symbols or who
suffers from any other physical disability may be accompanied into the polling
unit by a person chosen by him and that person shall, after informing the
Presiding Officer of the disability, be permitted to accompany the voter into the
voting compartment and assist the voter to make his mark in accordance with
the procedure prescribed by the Commission.
(2) The Commission may take reasonable steps to ensure that voters with
disabilities are assisted at the polling place by the provision of suitable means
of communication, such as Braille, Large embossed print or electronic devices
or sign language interpretation, or off-site voting in appropriate cases.
Blind and
incapacitated
voters
57. No voter shall record his vote otherwise than by personally attending at the
Polling unit and recording his vote in the manner prescribed by the
Commission.
Personal
attendance
58. No person shall be permitted to vote at any polling unit other than the one to
which he is allotted.
Voting at
appropriate Polling
Unit
59. -(1) If at the time a person applies for a ballot paper and before he has left the
polling unit, a polling agent, polling unit official or security agent informs the
Presiding Officer that he has reasonable cause to believe that the person is
under the age of 18 years or has committed the offence of impersonation and
gives an undertaking on a prescribed form to substantiate the charge in a court
of law, the Presiding Officer may order a police officer to arrest that person and
the Presiding Officer's order shall be sufficient authority for the police officer so
to act.
(2) A person in respect of whom a polling agent, polling official, or security
agent gives an information in accordance with the provision of subsection (1) of
this section shall not by reason of the information, be prevented from voting,
but the Presiding Officer shall cause the words "protested against for
impersonation" to be placed against his name in the marked copy of the
register of voters or part of the register of voters.
Impersonation by
Applicant for ballot
paper

-- 15 of 93 --

16 | P a g e
(3) Where a person in respect of whom a declaration is made under subsection
(2) of this section, admits to the Presiding Officer that he is not the person he
held himself out to be, he shall not be permitted to vote and shall be handed
over to the Police.
(4) A person arrested under the provisions of this section shall be deemed to be
a person taken into custody by a police officer.
60. -(1) If a person claiming to be entitled to vote applies for a ballot paper after
some other person has voted in the name given by the claimant he shall, upon
satisfactory answers given to any questions put to him by a poll clerk be
entitled to receive a ballot paper in the same manner as any other voter; but
the ballot paper (in this Act referred to as "the tendered ballot paper") shall be
of a colour different from the ordinary ballot papers.
(2) The Presiding Officer shall require the voter to deliver the tendered ballot
paper to him instead of allowing it to be put in the ballot box, and the Presiding
Officer shall endorse on it the name of the voter and his number in the register
of voters.
(3) The ballot paper shall on delivery to the Presiding Officer and in the view of
all present be set aside by the Presiding Officer in a packet intended for
tendered votes and the tendered ballot paper shall be counted by the Returning
Officer.
(4) The Presiding Officer shall, when he tenders a ballot paper under this
section, enter the name of the voter and his number in the register of voters on
the list to be called tendered vote list and the tendered vote list shall be
produced in any legal proceedings arising out of the election.
Tendered Ballot
Paper
61. -(1) The Presiding Officer shall regulate the admission of voters to the polling
unit and shall exclude all persons other than the candidates, polling agents, poll
clerks and persons lawfully entitled to be admitted including accredited
observers, and the Presiding Officer shall keep order and comply with the
requirements of this Act at the polling unit.
(2) The Presiding Officer may order a person to be removed from a polling unit,
who behaves in a disorderly manner or fails to obey a lawful order.
(3) A person removed from a polling unit under this section shall not, without
the permission of the Presiding Officer, again enter the polling unit during the
day of the election, and if charged with the commission of an offence in that
polling unit, the person shall be deemed to be a person taken into custody by a
police officer for an offence in respect of which he may be arrested without a
warrant.
(4) The provisions of subsection (3) of this section shall not be enforced so as
to prevent a voter who is otherwise entitled to vote at a polling unit from
having an opportunity of so voting.
(5) In the absence of the presiding officer, the Poll Clerk shall enjoy and
exercise all the powers of the Presiding Officer in respect of a Polling Unit.
Conduct at Polling
Units

-- 16 of 93 --

17 | P a g e
62. -(1) At the prescribed hour for the close of poll, the Presiding Officer shall
declare the poll closed and no more person(s) shall be admitted into the Polling
unit and only those already inside the Polling unit shall be allowed to vote.
(2) After the declaration of the close of polls, no voter already inside the polling
unit shall be permitted to remain in the polling unit unless otherwise
authorized under this Act.
Closing of Poll
63. -(1) The Presiding Officer shall, after counting the votes at the polling unit,
enter the votes scored by each candidate in a form to be prescribed by the
Commission as the case may be.
(2) The Form shall be signed and stamped by the Presiding Officer and counter
signed by the candidates or their polling agents where available at the Polling
unit.
(3) The Presiding Officer shall give to the Polling Agents and the police officer
where available a copy each of the completed Forms after it has been duly
signed as provided in subsection (2) of this section.
(4) The Presiding Officer shall count and announce the result at the Polling unit.
Counting of votes
and forms
64. A candidate or a Polling Agent may, where present at a Polling unit when
counting of votes is completed by the Presiding Officer, demand to have the
votes recounted, provided that the presiding Officer shall cause the votes to be
so recounted only once.
Recount
65. After the recording of the result of the election, the Presiding Officer shall
announce the result and deliver same and election materials under security to
such persons as may be prescribed by the Commission.
Post-election
procedure and
collation of
election results
66. -(1) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, a ballot paper, which does not
bear the official mark, shall not be counted.
(2) If the Returning Officer is satisfied that a ballot paper which does not bear
the official mark was from a book of ballot papers which was furnished to the
Presiding Officer of the polling unit in which the vote was cast for use at the
election in question, he shall, notwithstanding the absence of the official mark,
count that ballot paper.
Rejection of
Ballot Paper
without official
mark
67. (1) The Presiding Officer shall endorse the word "rejected" on the ballot paper
rejected under section 54(1) of this Act and for any other reason, and the ballot
papers shall not be counted except otherwise allowed by the Returning Officer
who may overrule the Presiding Officer.
(2) If an objection to the decision of a Presiding Officer to reject a ballot paper
is raised by a candidate or a polling agent at the time the decision is made, the
Presiding Officer shall add to the word "rejected", the phrase "but objected to".
Endorsement
on Rejected
Ballot Paper
without official
mark

-- 17 of 93 --

18 | P a g e
(3) The Presiding Officer shall prepare a statement on rejected ballot papers,
stating the number rejected, the reason for rejection and their serial number,
he shall on request allow a candidate or a polling agent to copy the statement.
68. (1)The decision of the Returning Officer on any question arising from or
relating to-
(a) unmarked ballot paper;
(b) rejected ballot paper; and
(c) declaration of scores of candidates and the return of a candidate, shall
be final subject to review by a tribunal or Court in an election petition
proceedings under this Act.
Decision of
Returning Officer
on Ballot Paper
69. In an election to the office of the President or Governor whether or not
contested and in any contested election to any other elective office, the result
shall be ascertained by counting the votes cast for each candidate and subject
to the provisions of sections 133, 134 and 179 of the Constitution, the
candidate that receives the highest number of votes shall be declared elected
by the appropriate Returning Officer.
Declaration of
Result
70. Where two or more candidates poll equal number of votes being the highest in
an election, the Returning Officer shall not return any of the candidates and a
fresh election shall be held for the candidates on a date to be appointed by the
Commission.
Equality of
votes
71. The Commission shall cause to be posted on its notice board and website, a
notice showing the candidates at the election and their scores; and the person
declared as elected or returned at the election.
Posting of
Results
72. The Chief Electoral Commissioner or any officer authorized by him shall keep
official custody of all the documents, including statement of results and ballot
papers relating to the election, which are returned to the Commission by the
Returning Officers.
Custody of
documents
73. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Commission shall issue and publish in
the Gazette, guidelines for the elections which shall make provisions, among
other things, for the step by step recording of the poll in the electoral forms as
may be prescribed beginning from the polling unit to the last collation centre
for the ward or constituency where the result of the election shall be declared.
Step by step
recording of
poll
74. Every Result Form completed at the Ward, Local Government, State and
National levels in accordance with the provision of this Act or any Guidelines
issued by the Commission shall be stamped, signed and countersigned by the
relevant officers and polling agents at those levels and copies given to the
police officers and the polling agents, where available.
Result forms to
be signed and
countersigned

-- 18 of 93 --

19 | P a g e
75. -(1) A sealed Certificate of Return at an election in a prescribed form shall be
issued within 7 days to every candidate who has won an election under this
Act:
Provided that where the Court of Appeal or the Supreme Court being the final
Appellate Court in any election petition as the case may be nullifies the
Certificate of Return of any candidate, the Commission shall within 48 hours
after the receipt of the order of such Court issue the successful candidate with
a valid Certificate of Return.
(2) Where the Commission refuses and, or neglects to issue a certificate of
return, a certified true copy of the Order of a Court of Competent Jurisdiction
shall, ipso facto, be sufficient for the purpose of swearing- in a candidate
declared as the winner by that Court.
Certificate of
return
76. The forms to be used for the conduct of elections under this Act shall be
determined by the Commission.
Forms for use
at elections
77. (1)The Resident Electoral Commissioner in a State where an election is
conducted, shall within 7 days, after an application is made to him, by any of
the parties to an election petition, cause such documents or the certified true
copy thereof, to be issued to the said party.
(2) Any Resident Electoral Commissioner who willfully fails to comply with the
provisions in sub section (1) above, is guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a maximum fine of N2,000,000 or imprisonment for 12
months, or both.
Access to
Election
Documents
78.
PART V - POLITICAL PARTIES
-(1) Any political association that complies with the provisions of the
Constitution and this Act for the purposes of registration shall be registered as
a political party. Provided however, that such application for registration as a
political party shall be duly submitted to the Commission not later than 6
months before a general election.
(2) The Commission shall on receipt of the documents in fulfillment of the
conditions stipulated by the Constitution immediately issue the applicant with a
letter of acknowledgement stating that all the necessary documents had been
submitted to the Commission.
(3) If the Association has not fulfilled all the conditions under this section, the
Commission shall within 30 days from the receipt of its application notify the
Association in writing stating the reasons for non-registration.
(4) Any political association that meets the conditions stipulated in the
Constitution and this Act shall be registered by the Commission as a political
party within 30 days from the date of receipt of the application and if after the
30 days such Association is not registered by the Commission unless the
Commission informs the Association to the contrary it shall be deemed to
have been registered.
Powers of the
Commission to
register
Political Parties

-- 19 of 93 --

20 | P a g e
(5) Any Association which through the submission of false or misleading
information pursuant to the provisions of this section procures a certificate of
registration shall have such certificate cancelled.
(6) No application for registration as a political party shall be processed unless
there is evidence of payment of administrative fee as may be fixed from time to
time by the Commission
.
(7) The Commission shall have power to de-register political parties on the
following grounds—
(i) breach of any of the requirements for registration;
(ii) for failure to win a seat in the National or State Assembly election.
79. The decision of the Commission not to register any association as a political
party may be challenged in a court of law, provided that any legal action
challenging the decision of the Commission shall be commenced within 30 days
from the date of receipt of the letter of notification of non registration from the
Commission.
Decision of the
Commission
subject to
judicial review
80. Every Political Party registered under this Act shall be a body corporate with
perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in its
corporate name.
Political Parties
to be bodies
corporate
81. -(1) Any political party or association, which contravenes the provisions of
section 227 of the Constitution is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to
a fine of-
(a) N 500,000.00 for the first offence;
(b) N 700,000.00 for any subsequent offence; and
(c) N 50,000 for every day that the offence continues.
(2) Any person or group of persons who aids or abets a political party in
contravening the provisions of section 227 of the Constitution shall be guilty of
an offence and be liable on conviction to a fine of N500,000 or 3 years
imprisonment or both.
Contravention
of Section 227
of the 1999
Constitution
82. -(1) The Commission shall keep a register of symbols for use at elections.
(2) The Commission shall register the symbol of a political party if it is satisfied
that—
(a) no other symbol of the same design is registered;
(b) the symbol is distinctive from any other symbol already registered; and
(c) its use will not be offensive or otherwise objectionable.
(3) The Commission shall remove a symbol from the register of symbols if—
(a) the political party in whose name it is registered requests the removal;
or
Symbols of
Political Parties

-- 20 of 93 --

21 | P a g e
(b) the Commission is of the opinion that the political party or independent
candidate in whose name the symbol is registered has ceased to exist or to
use the symbol.
(4) Nothing in this section shall authorize the allotment or registration for use
at any election of a symbol or material as symbol of a party, if it portrays—
(a) the Coat of Arms of the Federation;
(b) the Coat of Arms of any other country;
(c) any device or emblem which in the opinion of the Commission is
normally associated with—
(i) the official acts of Government;
(ii) any of the Armed Forces of the Federation or the Nigeria Police
Force or other uniformed service;
(iii) the regalia of a Chief;
(iv) any tribe or ethnic group;
(v) any religion or cult;
(vi) any portrait of a person living or dead;
(d) any symbol or part of a symbol which under the provision of this
section continues to be registered by another political party.
(5) Subject to the provisions of this section, the symbol allotted to a political
party and in use immediately before the coming into force of this Act shall
continue to be available to, and be used by, that political party without
payment of the fee.
83. Where a symbol is registered by a political party in accordance with this Act,
the Commission shall allot the symbol to any candidate sponsored by the
political party at any election.
Allocation of
Symbols
84. -(1) Any two or more registered political parties may merge on approval by the
Commission following a formal request presented to the Commission by the
political parties for that purpose.
(2) Political Parties intending to merge shall each give to the Commission 90
days notice of their intention to do so before a general election.
Retained as in Bill
(3) The written request for merger shall be sent to the Chairman of the
Commission and shall be signed jointly by the National Chairman, Secretary and
Treasurer for the time being of the different Political Parties proposing the
merger and shall be accompanied by:-
(a) a special resolution passed by the National Convention of each of the
political parties proposing to merge, approving the merger;
(b) the proposed full name and acronym, Constitution, manifesto, symbol or
logo of the
party together with the addresses of the National office of the party resulting
Merger of
Political Parties

-- 21 of 93 --

22 | P a g e
from the merger; and
(c) evidence of payment of administrative costs of N100,000 or as may be
fixed from time to time by an Act of the National Assembly.
(4) On receipt of the request for merger of political parties the Commission
shall consider the request; and if the parties have fulfilled the requirements of
the Constitution and this Act, approve the proposed merger and communicate
its decision to the Parties concerned before the expiration of thirty (30) days
from the date of the receipt of the formal request.
PROVIDED that if the Commission fails to communicate its decision with 30
days the merger shall be deemed to be effective.
(5) Where the request for the proposed merger is approved, the Commission
shall forthwith withdraw and cancel the certificates of registration of all the
Political Parties opting for the merger and substitute therefore, a single
certificate of registration in the name of the party resulting from the merger.
(6) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2) of this section no merger
of Political Parties received by the Commission less than 90 days before any
general election in the country shall be considered by the Commission.
85. -(1) Every registered political party shall give the Commission at least 21 days
notice of any convention, congress, conference or meeting convened for the
purpose of electing members of its executive committees, other governing
bodies or nominating candidates for any of the elective offices specified under
this Act.
(2) The Commission may with or without prior notice to the political party
monitor and attend any convention, congress, conference or meeting which is
convened by a political party for the purpose of:-
(a) electing members of its executive committees or other governing
bodies;
(b) nominating candidates for an election at any level;
(c) approving a merger with any other registered political party.
(3) The election of members of the executive committee or other governing
body of a political party, including the election to fill a vacant position in any of
the aforesaid bodies, shall be conducted in a democratic manner and allowing
for all members of the party or duly elected delegates to vote in support of a
candidate of their choice.
(4) Notice of any congress, conference or meeting for the purpose of
nominating candidates for Area Council elections shall be given to the
Commission at least 21 days before such congress, conference or meeting.
Notice of
Convention,
Congress, etc
86. -(1) The Commission shall monitor and keep records of the activities of all the
registered political parties.
(2) The Commission may seek information or clarification from any registered
political party in connection with any activities of the political party which may
be contrary to the provisions of the Constitution or any other law, guidelines,
Monitoring of
Political Parties

-- 22 of 93 --

23 | P a g e
rules or regulations made pursuant to an Act of the National Assembly.
(3) The Commission may direct its enquiry under subsection (2) of this section
to the Chairman or Secretary of the Political Party at the National, State, Local
Government or Area Council or Ward level, as the case may be.
(4) A Political Party which fails to provide the required information or
clarification under subsection (2) of this section or carry out any lawful directive
given by the Commission in conformity with the provisions of this section is
guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of not less than
N500,000:00.
87. -(1) A political party seeking to nominate candidates for elections under this Act
shall hold primaries for aspirants to all elective positions.
(2) The procedure for the nomination of candidates by political parties for the
various elective positions shall be by direct or indirect primaries.
(3) A political party that adopts the direct primaries procedure shall ensure
that all aspirants are given equal opportunity of being voted for by members of
the party.
(4) A political party that adopts the system of indirect primaries for the choice
of its candidate shall adopt the procedure outlined below:
(a) In the case of nominations to the position of
Presidential candidate, a political party shall,
(i) hold special conventions in each of the 36 States of the Federation
and FCT, where delegates shall vote for each of the aspirants at
designated centres in each State Capital on specified dates.
(ii) a National Convention shall be held for the ratification of the
candidate with the highest number of votes.
(iii) the aspirant with the highest number of votes at the end of voting
in the 36 States of the Federation and FCT, shall be declared the
winner of the Presidential primaries of the political party and the
aspirants name shall be forwarded to the Independent National
Electoral Commission as the candidate of the party after ratification
by the national convention.
(b) In the case of nominations to the position of
Governorship candidate, a political party shall, where they intend to
sponsor candidates:
(i) hold special congress in each of the local government areas of the
States with delegates voting for each of the aspirants at the
congress to be held in designated centres on specified dates.
(ii) The aspirant with the highest number of votes at the end of voting
shall be declared the winner of the primaries of the party and
aspirant’s name shall be forwarded to the Independent National
Nomination of
Candidates by
Parties

-- 23 of 93 --

24 | P a g e
Electoral Commission as the candidate of the party, for the
particular State.
(c) In the case of nominations to the position of a
Senatorial candidate, House of Representatives and State House of
Assembly a political party shall, where they intend to sponsor
candidates:
(i) hold special congresses in the Senatorial District, Federal
Constituency and the State assembly constituency respectively,
with delegates voting for each of the aspirants in designated
centres on specified dates.
(ii) The aspirant with the highest number of votes at the end of voting
shall be declared the winner of the primaries of the party and the
aspirant’s name shall be forwarded to the Independent National
Electoral Commission as the candidate of the party.
(d) In the case of the position of a Chairmanship
candidate of an Area council a political party shall, where they intend to
sponsor candidates:
(i) hold special congresses in the Area Councils, with delegates voting
for each of the aspirants at designated centres on a specified date.
(ii) The aspirant with the highest number of votes at the end of voting
shall be declared the winner of the primaries of the party and the
aspirant’s name shall be forwarded to the Independent National
Electoral Commission as the candidate of the party.
(5) In the case of a councillorship candidate, the procedure for the nomination
of the candidate shall be by direct primaries in the ward and the name of the
candidate with the highest number of votes shall be submitted to the
Independent National electoral commission as the candidate of the party.
(6) Where there is only one aspirant in a political party for any of the elective
positions mentioned in sub section (4)(a), (b), (c) and (d), the party shall
convene a special convention or congress at a designated centre on a specified
date for the confirmation of such aspirant and the name of the aspirant shall be
forwarded to the Independent National Electoral commission as the candidate
of the party.
(7) A political party that adopts the system of indirect primaries for the choice
of its candidate shall clearly outline in its constitution and rules the procedure
for the democratic election of delegates to vote at the convention, congress or
meeting.
(8) No political appointee at any level shall be a voting delegate at the
Convention or Congress of any political party for the purpose of nomination of
candidates for any election.
(9) Where a political party fails to comply with the provisions of this Act in the
conduct of its primaries, its candidate for election shall not be included in the

-- 24 of 93 --

25 | P a g e
election for the particular position in issue.
(10) Notwithstanding the provisions of the Act or rules of a political party, an
aspirant who complains that any of the provisions of this Act and the guidelines
of a political party has not been complied with in the selection or nomination of
a candidate of a political party for election, may apply to the Federal High Court
or the High Court of a State, for redress.
(11) Nothing in this section shall empower the Courts to stop the holding of
primaries or general election under this Act pending the determination of the
suit.
88. -(1) Any Political Party that-
(a) holds or possesses any fund outside Nigeria in contravention of section
91(3)(a) of this Act commits an offence and shall forfeit the funds or assets
purchased with such funds to the Commission and on conviction shall be liable
to a fine of not less than N500,000.00;
(b) retains any fund or other asset remitted to it from outside Nigeria in
contravention of section 91(3)(b) of this Act is guilty of an offence and shall
forfeit the funds or assets to the Commission and on conviction shall be liable
to a fine of not less than N 500,000.00.
Offences in
relation to
finances of a
Political Party
89. -(1) Every political party shall submit to the Commission a detailed annual
statement of Assets and Liabilities and analysis of its sources of funds and other
assets, together with statement of its expenditure in such a form as the
Commission may from time to time require.
(2) The Statement of Assets and Liabilities referred to in subsection (1) of this
section shall be in respect of the period 1st January to 31st December in each
year, and that in the year which this Act comes into operation, it shall be for
the period beginning with the registration of such party and ending on the
following 31st December.
(3) Every political party shall grant to any officer authorized in writing by the
Commission, access to examine the records and audited accounts kept by the
political party in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the political
party shall give to the
officer all such information as may be requested in relation to all contributions
received by or on behalf of the party.
(4) The Commission shall publish the report on such examinations and audit in
three National Newspapers.
Period to be
covered by
Annual
Statement
90. -(1). The Commission shall have power to place limitation on the amount of
money or other assets, which an individual or group of persons can contribute
to a political party.
Power to limit
contribution to
a Political Party

-- 25 of 93 --

26 | P a g e
91. -(1) Election expenses shall not exceed the sum stipulated in subsection (2) –
(7) of this section.
(2) The maximum election expenses to be incurred by a candidate at a
Presidential election shall be one billion naira (N1,000,000,000).
(3) The maximum election expenses to be incurred by a candidate at a
Governorship election shall be two hundred million naira (N200,000,000).
(4) The maximum amount of election expenses to be incurred in respect of
Senatorial seat by a candidate at an election to the National Assembly shall be
forty million naira (N40,000,000) while the seat for House of
Representatives shall be twenty million naira (N20,000,000)
(5) In the case of State Assembly election, the maximum amount of election
expenses to be incurred shall be ten million naira (N10,000,000).
(6) In the case of a chairmanship election to an Area Council, the maximum
amount of election expresses to be incurred shall be ten million naira
(N10,000,000).
(7) In the case of councillorship election to an Area Council, the maximum
amount of election expenses to be incurred shall be one million naira
(N1,000, 000).
(8) In determining the total expenditure incurred in relation to the candidature
of any person at any election no account shall be taken of:-
(a) any deposit made by the candidate on his/her nomination in compliance
with the law ;
(b) any expenditure incurred before the notification of the date fixed for the
election with respect to services rendered or material supplied before such
notification.
(c) Political party expenses in respect of the candidate standing for a
particular election.
(9) No individual or other entity shall donate more than one million naira (N1,
000,000) to any candidate.
(10) A candidate who knowingly acts in contravention of this section commits
an offence and on conviction shall be liable –
(a) in case of presidential election to a maximum fine of N1,000,000.00 or
imprisonment of 12 months or both;
(b) in the case of a governorship election to a fine of N800,000.00 or
imprisonment
for 9 months or both;
(c) in case of senatorial seat election in the National Assembly election to
a fine of N600,000.00 or imprisonment for 6 months or both;
(d) in the case of House of Representatives seat election in the National
Assembly election
to a fine of N500,000.00 or imprisonment for 5 months or both;
Limitation on
election
expenses

-- 26 of 93 --

27 | P a g e
(e) in the case of a State House of Assembly election to a fine of
N300,000.00 or 3
months imprisonment or both;
(f) in the case of Chairmanship election to a fine of N300,000.00 or 3
months
imprisonment or both; and
(g) in the case of Councillorship election to a fine of N100,000.00 or 1
month
imprisonment or both.
(11) Any individual who knowingly acts in contravention of subsection (9) shall
on conviction be liable to a maximum fine of N500,000.00 or 9 months
imprisonment or both.
(12) Any Accountant who falsifies or conspires or aids a candidate to forge or
falsify a document relating to his expenditure at an election or receipt or
donation for the election or in any way aids and abets the breach of the
provision of this section of this Act commits an offence and on conviction is
liable to 10 years imprisonment.
92. -(1) For the purposes of an election, "election expenses" means expenses
incurred by a political party within the period from the date notice is given by
the Commission to conduct an election up to and including, the polling day in
respect of the particular election.
(2) Election expenses incurred by a political party for the management or the
conduct of an election shall be determined by the Commission in consultation
with the political parties.
(3) (a) Election expenses of a political party shall be submitted to the
Commission in a separate audited return within six months after an election
and such return shall be signed by the political party's auditors and counter-
signed by the Chairman of the party and be supported by a sworn affidavit by
the signatories as to the correctness of its contents.
(b) Any political party which commits a breach of this section is guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a maximum fine of N1,000,000
and in the case of failure to submit an accurate audited return within the
stipulated period, the court may impose a maximum penalty of N200,000 per
day on any party for the period after the return was due until it is submitted
to the Commission.
(4) The return referred to in subsection (3) of this section shall show the
amount of money expended by or on behalf of the party on election expenses,
the items of expenditure and commercial value of goods and services received
for election purposes.
(5) The political party shall cause the return submitted to the Commission
pursuant to subsection (4) of this section to be published in at least two
National Newspapers.
(6) Any political party that incurs election expenses beyond the limit stipulated
in this Act is guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a maximum
Election
expenses of
political parties

-- 27 of 93 --

28 | P a g e
fine of N1,000,000.00. and forfeiture to the Commission, of the amount by
which the expenses exceed the limit set by the Commission.
(7) The Commission shall make available for public inspection during regular
business hours at its Headquarters and state offices the audit returns of the
political parties required by subsection (3) of this section which shall include the
names, addresses, occupation, and amount contributed by each contributor to
a party.
93. -(1) No political party shall accept or keep in its possession any anonymous
monetary or other contributions, gifts, properties, etc from any source
whatsoever.
(2) Every political party shall keep an account and asset book into which shall
be
recorded:-
(a) all monetary and other forms of contribution received by the party; and
(b) the name and address of any person or entity that contributes any
money or assets which exceeds N1,000,000.00
(3) No political party shall accept any monetary or other contribution exceeding
N100,000 unless it can identify the source of the money or other contribution to
the Commission.
(4) Every political party sponsoring the election of a candidate shall, within
three months after the announcement of the results of the election, file a report
of the contributions made by individuals and entities to the Commission.
Disclosure by
political parties
94. -(1) For the purpose of the proper and peaceful conduct of political rallies and
processions, the Commissioner of Police in each state of the Federation and the
Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, shall provide adequate security for processions
at political rallies in the states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja.
(2) A person who, while present at a political rally or procession or voting
centre, has with him any offensive weapon or missile otherwise than in
pursuance of a lawful duty is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a
maximum fine of N2,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of 2 years or both.
(3) For the purpose of subsection (2) of this Section, a person shall be deemed
to be acting in pursuance of a lawful duty if he is acting in his capacity as a
police officer or as a member of a security agency authorized to carry arms and
is specifically posted to be present at that political rally or procession.
Conduct at
political rallies,
and
processions,
etc
95. - (1) No political campaign or slogan shall be tainted with abusive language
directly or indirectly likely to injure religious, ethnic, tribal or sectional feelings.
(2) Abusive, intemperate, slanderous or base language or insinuations or
innuendoes designed or likely to provoke violent reaction or emotions shall not
be employed or used in political campaigns.
Prohibition of
certain
conduct, etc. at
Political
Campaigns

-- 28 of 93 --

29 | P a g e
(3) Places designated for religious worship, police station, and public offices
shall not be used-
(a) for political campaigns, rallies and processions; or
(b) to promote, propagate or attack political parties, candidates or their
programmes or ideologies.
(4) Masquerades shall not be employed or used by any political party,
candidate or person during political campaigns or for any other political
purpose.
(5) No political party or member of a political party shall retain, organize, train
or equip any person or group of persons for the purpose of enabling them to be
employed for the use or display of physical force or coercion in promoting any
political objective or interests, or in such manner as to arouse reasonable
apprehension that they are organized, trained or equipped for that purpose.
(6) No political party, person or candidate shall keep or use private security
organization, vanguard or any other group or individual by whatever name
called for the purpose of providing security, assisting or aiding the political
party or candidate in whatever manner during campaigns, rallies, processions
or elections.
(7) A political party or persons who contravenes any of the provision of this
section is guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction-
(a) in the case of an individual, to a maximum fine of N1,000,000 or
imprisonment for the term of 12 months; and
(b) in the case of a political party, to a fine of N2,000,000 in the first
instance, and
N1,000,000 for any subsequent offence.
(8) Any person or group of persons who aids or abets a political party in
contravening the provisions of subsection (5) of this section guilty of an offence
and is liable on conviction to a fine of N500,000 or 3 years imprisonment or
both.
96. -(1) No candidate, person or group of persons shall directly or indirectly
threaten any person with the use of force or violence during any political
campaign in order to compel that person or any other person to support or
refrain from supporting a political party or candidate.
(2) Any person or political party that contravenes the provisions of this section
is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction-
(a) in the case of an individual, to a maximum fine of N1,000,000 or
imprisonment for a term of 12 months; and
(b) in the case of a political party, to a fine of N2,000,000 in the first
instance, and
N500,000 for any subsequent offence.
Prohibition of
use of force or
violence during
political
campaign

-- 29 of 93 --

30 | P a g e
97. Where a political party ceases to exist in accordance with the Constitution and
this Act, a person elected on the platform of the Political Party in an election
under this Act shall remain validly elected, complete his tenure, and, for
purposes of identification, be regarded as a member of the political party under
which he was elected.
Effect on
elected officer
where political
party ceases to
exist
98. Any political party registered by the Commission in accordance with the
provisions of any law in force immediately before the coming into force of the
Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and this Act shall be deemed to
have been duly registered under this Act
Existing
political parties
99. -(1) For the purpose of this Act, the period of campaigning in public by every
political party shall commence 90 days before polling day and end 24 hours
prior to that day.
(2) A registered Political Party which through any person acting on its behalf
during the 24 hours before polling day-
(a) advertises on the facilities of any broadcasting undertaking; or
(b) procures for publication or acquiesces in the publication of an
advertisement in a Newspaper, for the purpose of promoting or opposing a
particular candidate, is guilty of an offence under this Act and upon
conviction shall be liable to a maximum fine of N500,000.
Limitation on
political
broadcast and
campaign by
political parties
100. -(1) A candidate and his party shall campaign for the elections in accordance
with such rules and regulations as may be determined by the Commission.
(2) State apparatus including the media shall not be employed to the
advantage or disadvantage of any political party or candidate at any election.
(3) Media time shall be allocated equally among the political parties or
candidates at similar hours of the day.
(4) At any public electronic media, equal airtime shall be allotted to all political
parties or candidates during prime times at similar hours each day, subject to
the payment of appropriate fees.
(5) At any public print media, equal coverage and conspicuity shall be allotted
to all political parties.
(6) Any public media that contravenes subsections 3 and 4 of this section shall
be guilty of offence and on conviction be liable to a maximum fine of N500,000
in the first instance and to a maximum fine of N1,000,000 for subsequent
conviction.
Campaign for
election
101. -(1) A person, print or electronic medium that broadcasts, publishes, advertises
or circulates any material for the purpose of promoting or opposing a particular
political party or the election of a particular candidate over the radio, television,
newspaper, magazine, handbills, or any print or electronic media whatsoever
called during twenty four hours immediately preceding or on polling day is
guilty of an offence under this Act.
Prohibition of
Broadcast, etc
24 hours
preceding or on
polling day

-- 30 of 93 --

31 | P a g e
(2) Where an offence under subsection (1) of this section is committed by a
body corporate, every principal officer of that body is equally guilty of an
offence under this Act.
(3) Where any person is convicted of an offence under this section he shall be
liable:
(a) in the case of a body corporate to a maximum fine of N1,000,000 and
(b) in the case of an individual to a maximum fine of N500,000 or to
imprisonment for
12 months.
102. Any candidate, person or association who engages in campaigning or
broadcasting based on religious, tribal, or sectional reason for the purpose of
promoting or opposing a particular political party or the election of a particular
candidate, is guilty of an offence under this Act and on conviction shall be liable
to a maximum fine of N1,000,000 or imprisonment for twelve months or to
both.
Campaign
based on
religion, tribe,
etc.
103.
PART VI - PROCEDURE FOR ELECTION TO AREA COUNCIL.
-(1) The conduct of elections into the offices of Chairman, Vice Chairman and a
member of an Area Council and the recall of a member of an Area Council shall
be under the direction and supervision of the Commission in accordance with
the provisions of this Act.
(2) The Register of Voters compiled and the polling units established by the
Commission and any other regulations, guidelines, rules or manuals issued or
made by the Commission shall be used for elections into the Area Council or
recall of a member.
Power of the
Commission
104. -(1) There shall be elected for each Area Council in the Federal Capital Territory
a Chairman and Vice-Chairman.
(2) There shall be a councilor for each electoral ward in an area council of the
Federal Capital Territory.
Election to
offices of
Chairman,
Vice-Chairman
and Councilors
105. -(1) Subject to the provision of this section, the Commission shall divide each
Area Council into Electoral wards not being less than 10 and not more than 20
as the circumstance of each Area Council may require.
(2) The boundaries of each ward shall be such that the number of inhabitants
of the Electoral ward is as nearly equal to the population quota of the Electoral
ward as is reasonably practicable.
(3) The Commission shall review the division of every Area Council into wards
at intervals of not less than 10 years and may alter such Electoral ward in
accordance with the provisions of subsection (1) of this Section to such extent
as it may consider desirable in the light of the review.
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (3) of this section, the
Commission may, at any time, carry out such a review and alter the Electoral
ward in accordance with the provisions of this section to such extent as it
Division of Area
Council into
Registration
Area

-- 31 of 93 --

32 | P a g e
considers necessary in consequence of any amendment to section 3 of the
Constitution or any provision replacing that provision or by reason of the
holding of a National Population Census or pursuant to an Act of the National
Assembly.
106. -(1)A person shall be qualified for election under this part of this Act if he-
(a) is a citizen of Nigeria;
(b) is registered as a voter;
(c) has attained the age of 25years for Councillor and 30 years for Chairman
and Vice Chairman;
(d) is educated up to at least the School Certificate level or its equivalent;
(e) is a member of a political party and is sponsored by that.
Qualification
107. -(1) A person shall not be qualified to contest an Area Council election under
this Act if-
(a) subject to the provisions of section 28 of the Constitution, he has
voluntarily acquired the citizenship of a country other than Nigeria or,
except in such cases as may be prescribed by the National Assembly, has
made a declaration of allegiance to such a country;
(b) he is adjudged to be a lunatic or otherwise declared to be of unsound
mind under any law in force in any part of Nigeria ;
(c) he is under a sentence of death imposed on him by any competent
court of law or tribunal in Nigeria.
(d) within a period of less than ten years before the date of an election to
the Area Council, he has been convicted and sentenced for an offence
involving dishonesty or he has been found guilty of contravention of the
Code of Conduct;
(e) he is an undischarged bankrupt, having been adjudged or otherwise
declared bankrupt under any law in force in any part of Nigeria;
(f) he is a person employed in the public service of the Federation or of
any State or Area Council (other than a person holding elective office) and
he has not resigned, withdrawn or retired from such employment 30 days
before the date of election;
(g) he is a member of any secret society;
(h) he has within the preceding period of 10 years presented a forged
certificate to the
Commission;
(i) he has been dismissed from the public service of the Federation, State,
Local Government or Area council; or
(j) he has been elected to such office at any two previous elections in the
case of
Chairman
(2) Where in respect of any person who has been-
Disqualification

-- 32 of 93 --

33 | P a g e
(a) adjudged to be a lunatic;
(b) declared to be of unsound mind;
(c) sentenced to death or imprisonment; or
(d) adjudged or declared bankrupt, any appeal against the decision is
pending in any court of law in accordance with any law in force in Nigeria,
subsection (1) of this section shall not apply during a period beginning
from the date when such appeal is lodged and ending on the date when
the appeal is finally determined or as the case may be, the appeal lapses
or is abandoned, whichever is earlier.
(3) For the purpose of subsection (2) of this section, an ―appeal‖ includes any
application for an injunction or an order of certiorari, mandamus, prohibition, or
habeas corpus, or any appeal from any such application.
185. -(1) Election into all the Area Councils shall be held on the same date and day
throughout the Federal Capital Territory.
(2) Bye-elections to fill vacancies that occur in Area Councils shall be held
within 30 days from the date the vacancy occurred.
(3) The date mentioned in subsection (1) of this section shall not be earlier
than one hundred and fifty days before and not later than ninety days
before the expiration of the term of office of the last holder of that office.
(4) Where a vacancy occurs more than three months before the day the Area
Council stands dissolved there shall be a bye-election to fill the vacancy not
later than 30 days from the date the vacancy occurred.
(5) Voting shall be by open-secret ballot.
Date of Area
Council
Elections and
method of
voting
109. The procedure for filing nominations and the casting and counting of votes for
Area Council elections shall be the same as is applicable to other elections
under this Act.
Procedure for
Area Council
Elections
110. -(1) If after the expiration of time for the delivery of nomination papers and the
withdrawal of candidates for election of Councillors under this Act only one
candidate remains duly nominated, that candidate shall be declared returned
unopposed.
(2) If after the expiration of time for the delivery of Nomination Papers and the
withdrawal of candidates for election of Councillors under this section more
than one candidate remains duly nominated, a poll shall be taken in accordance
with the provisions of this Act.
(3) Where at the close of nomination for election to the office of Chairman, only
one candidate-
(a) has been nominated; or
(b) remains nominated by reason of the disqualification, withdrawal,
incapacitation, disappearance, or death of the other candidate, the
Commission shall extend the time for nomination by seven days.
PROVIDED: that where after the extension, only one candidate remains
Procedure for
Nomination,
etc

-- 33 of 93 --

34 | P a g e
validly nominated there shall be no further extension.
111. -(1) A candidate for an election to the Office of Chairman shall be deemed to
have been duly elected to the office where being the only candidate nominated
for the election
he has:
(a) a majority of YES votes over NO votes cast at the election; and
(b) not less than one-third of the votes cast at the election in each of at
least two-thirds
of all the wards in the Area Council. PROVIDED: that where the only
candidate fails to be elected in accordance with this subsection then there
shall be fresh nomination.
(2) A candidate for an election to the office of the Chairman shall be deemed to
have been elected where there being only two candidates for the election-
(a) he has a majority of the votes cast at the election; and
(b) he has not less than one-quarter of the votes cast at the election in
each of at least
two-thirds of all the wards in the Area Council, as the case may be.
(3) If no candidate is duly elected under subsection (2) of this section, the
Commission shall within 7 days conduct a second election between the two
candidates, and the candidate who scored the majority of votes cast at the
election shall be deemed duly elected at the election.
(4) A candidate for an election to the office of Chairman shall be deemed to
have been duly elected where, there being more than two candidates for the
election-
(a) he has the highest number of votes cast at the election; and
(b) he has not less than one-quarter of the votes cast at the election in
each of at
least two-thirds of all wards in the Area Council, as the case may be.
(5) If no candidate is duly elected in accordance with subsection (4) of this
section, there shall be a second election in accordance with subsection (6) of
this section at which the only candidates shall be:
(a) the candidate who scored the highest number of votes at the election
held
under subsection (4) of this section; and
(b) one among the remaining candidates who has the majority of votes in
the highest
number of wards so however that where there are more than one
candidate, the one among them with the highest total number of votes
cast at the election shall be the second candidate for the election.
(6) In default of a candidate duly elected under the foregoing subsections, the
Commission shall within 7 days of the result of the election held under the said
subsections arrange for another election between the two candidates and a
Election of Area
Council
Chairman

-- 34 of 93 --

35 | P a g e
candidate at such an election shall be deemed to have been duly elected to the
office of a Chairman of the Area Council if he has-
(a) a majority of the votes cast at the election; and
(b) not less than one-quarter of the votes cast at the election in each of at
least two-thirds of all the wards in the Area Council, as the case may be.
(7) If no candidate is duly elected under subsection (6) of this section,
arrangements shall be made within 7 days of the result of the previous election,
for another election between the two candidates specified in subsection (6) of
this section, and a candidate at this last election shall be deemed duly elected
to the office of Chairman of the Area
Council if he scores a simple majority of votes cast at the election.
112. -(1) If a person duly elected as Chairman dies before taking and subscribing to
the Oath of Allegiance and Oath of Office, the person elected with him as Vice-
chairman shall be sworn in as Chairman who shall then nominate and with the
approval of a majority of the members of the Area Legislative Council appoint a
new vice-chairman.
(2) Where the Vice-Chairman is appointed from among the Councilors as the
new Vice-Chairman, the Commission shall conduct a bye-election to fill the
vacant seat created in the Ward from which the new Vice-Chairman has been
appointed.
(3) Where the persons duly elected as Chairman and Vice-Chairman of an Area
Council die before taking and subscribing the Oath of Allegiance and Oath of
Office during which period the Area Council has not been inaugurated the
Commission shall within 21 days conduct an election to fill the vacancies.
Death of
Chairman
before Oath of
office
113. -(1)An Area Council shall stand dissolved at the expiration of a period of three
years commencing from the date-
(a) when the Chairman took the oath of office; or
(b) when the legislative arm of the council was inaugurated whichever is
earlier.
(2) In the determination of the three year term, where a re-run election
has taken place and the person earlier sworn in wins the re-run election,
the time spent in office before the date the election was annulled, shall be
taken into account.
Dissolution of
Area Council
114. -(1) A member of an Area Council shall vacate his seat in the Council-
(a) on the date given in his letter of resignation; or
(b) if he takes up full time paid employment at any level of the
government or in the private sector.
(c) if he becomes a member of a secret society or does any other thing
disqualifying him from holding the office of Chairman or Councillors under
this Act; or
Vacation of
seat of
members

-- 35 of 93 --

36 | P a g e
(d) if the Leader of the Area Legislative Council receives a certificate under
the hand of the Commission stating that the provisions of section 116 of
this Act have been complied with in respect of the recall of that member.
(2) The Leader of the Area Legislative Council shall give effect to subsection (1)
of this section, so that the Leader shall first present evidence satisfactory to the
Area Council that any of the provisions of that subsection has become
applicable in respect of that member.
115. -(1) The Chairman or Vice-Chairman may be removed from office in accordance
with the provision of this section.
(2) Whenever a notice of any allegation of gross misconduct in writing signed
by not less than one-third of the members of the Area Legislative Council
stating that the holder of the office of Chairman or Vice-Chairman is guilty of
misconduct in the performance of the functions of his office, detailed particulars
of which shall be specified are presented to the Speaker of the Area Legislative
Council.
(3) The leader of the Area Legislative Council shall within 7 days of the notice,
cause a copy of the notice to be served on the holder of the office and on each
member of the Area Legislative Council and shall also cause any statement
made in reply to the allegation by the holder of the office to be served on each
member of the Area Legislative Council.
(4) Within 14 days of the presentation of the notice, (Whether or not any
statement was made by the holder of the office in reply to the allegation
contained in notice) the Area Legislative Council, shall resolve by motion
without any debate whether or not the allegation shall be investigated.
(5) A motion of the Area Legislative Council that the allegation be investigated
shall not be declared as having been passed unless it is supported by the votes
of not less than two-thirds majority of all the members of the Area Legislative
Council.
(6) Within 7 days of the passing of a motion under subsection (4) of this
section, the leader of the Area Legislative Council shall inform the Chief Judge
of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, who shall appoint a Panel of seven
persons who in the opinion of the Chief Judge are of unquestionable integrity
not being members of -
(a) any public or civil service;
(b) a legislative house; or
(c) a political party to investigate the allegation as provided in this section.
(7) The holder of an office whose conduct is being investigated under this
section shall have the right to defend himself in person or be represented
before the Panel by a legal practitioner of his own choice.
(8) A Panel appointed under this section shall –
(a) have such powers and exercise its functions in accordance with such
procedure as may be prescribed by an Act of the National Assembly;
(b)within three months of its appointment, report its findings to the Area
Removal of
Chairman or
Vice- Chairman

-- 36 of 93 --

37 | P a g e
Legislative
Council.
(9) Where the Panel reports to the Area Legislative Council that the allegation
has not been proven no further proceedings shall be taken in respect of the
matter.
(10) Where the report of the Panel is that the allegation against the holder of
the office has been proved, then within 14 days of the receipt of the report, the
Area Legislative Council shall consider the report and if by a resolution of the
Area Council supported by not less than two thirds majority of all its members,
the report of the Panel is adopted then the holder of the office shall stand
removed from office as from the date of the adoption of the report.
116. A member of an Area Council may be recalled as a member if-
(a) there is presented to the Chairman of the Commission a petition in that
behalf signed by not less than one-half of the persons registered to vote in
that member’s constituency alleging their loss of confidence in that
member and which signatures are duly verified by the Independent
National Electoral Commission; and
(b) the petition is thereafter approved in a referendum conducted by the
Commission
within 90 days of the date of the receipt of the petition by a simple
majority of the votes
of the persons registered to vote in that member’s constituency.
Recall
117.
PART VIII - ELECTORAL OFFENCES
-(1) Any person who:
(a) without authority, destroys, mutilates, defaces or removes or makes any
alteration in any notice or document required for the purpose of registration
under this Act;
(b) knowingly gives false information or makes a false statement with reference
to any application for registration of his name or with reference to any
objection to the retention of the name of a person in the register of voters;
(c) presents himself to be or does any act whereby he is by whatever name or
description howsoever, included in the register of voters for a constituency in
which he is not entitled to be registered or causes himself to be registered in
more than one registration or revision centre;
(d) publishes any statement or report which he knows to be false or does not
believe to be true so as to prevent persons who are qualified to register from
registering as voters;
(e) makes in any record, register or document which he is required to prepare,
publish or keep for the purpose of registration, any entry or statement which he
knows to be false or does not believe to be true;
Offences in
relation to
registration,
etc

-- 37 of 93 --

38 | P a g e
(f) impedes or obstructs a registration officer or a revision officer in the
performance of his duties;
(g) without proper authority, wears the identification of a registration officer or
assistant registration officer or wears any other identification purporting to be
the identification of a registration officer or assistant registration officer;
(h) forges a registration card; or
(i) carries out registration or revision of voters at a centre or place not
designated by the Commission; commits an offence and liable on conviction to
a maximum fine of N1,000,000 or to 12 months imprisonment or to both.
118. -(1) A person who—
(a) forges any nomination paper or result form;
(b) willfully defaces or destroys any nomination paper or result form;
(c) delivers to an electoral officer any nomination paper or result form
knowing it to be forged;
(d) signs a nomination paper or result form as a candidate in more
than one constituency at the same election;
(e) forges any ballot paper or official mark on any ballot paper or any
certificate of return or result form;
(f) willfully destroys any ballot paper or official mark on any ballot
paper or any certificate of return or result form;
(g) without authority gives a ballot paper or result form to any person;
(h) willfully places in any ballot box any unauthorized paper or result
form;
(i) willfully removes from a polling station any ballot paper or result
form whether or not the ballot paper or result form was issues to him
in that polling station;
(j) without authority destroys or in any other manner interferes with a
ballot box or its contents or any ballot paper or result form then in use
or likely to be used for the purpose of an election;
(k) signs a nomination paper consenting to be a candidate at an
election knowing that he is ineligible to be a candidate at that election,
commit an offence.
(2) A person who commits an offence under subsection (1) of this section is
liable on conviction to a maximum term of imprisonment for 2 years.
Offences in
respect of
nomination, etc

-- 38 of 93 --

39 | P a g e
(3) A person who—
(a) without proper authority prints a ballot paper or what purports to be
or is capable of being used as a ballot paper or result form at an
election;
(b) being authorized by the Commission to print ballot papers or result
form prints more than the number or quantity the Commission
authorized;
(c) without authority, is found in possession of a ballot paper or result
form when he is not in the process of voting and at a time when the
election for which the ballot paper or result form is intended is not yet
completed;
(d) manufactures, constructs, imports into Nigeria, has in his possession,
supplies to any election official or uses for the purpose of an election, or
causes to be manufactured, constructed or imported into Nigeria,
supplies to any election official for use for the purpose of any election,
any ballot box including any compartment, appliance, device or
mechanism or by which a ballot paper or result form may or could be
secretly placed or stored in, or having been deposited during polling may
be secretly diverted, misplaced or manipulated, commits an offence.
(4) A person who commits an offence under subsection (3) of this section is
liable on conviction to a maximum fine of N50,000,000 or for a term of
imprisonment of not less than 10 years or to both.
(5) An attempt to commit any offence under this section shall be punishable in
the same manner as the offence itself.
119. Any person who, at a political meeting held after the date for an election has
been announced:
(a) acts or incites another to act in a disorderly manner for the purpose of
preventing the
transaction of the business for which the meeting was convened; or
(b) has in his possession an offensive weapon or missiles; commits an
offence and liable on conviction to a maximum fine of N500,000 or
imprisonment for 12 months or both.
Disorderly
behavior at
political
meetings
120. -(1) Any person who:
(a) being entitled to a voters card, gives it to some other person for use at
an election other than an officer appointed and acting in the course of his
duty under this Act.;
(b) Not being an officer acting in the course of his duty under this Act,
receives any voters card in the name of some other person or persons for
use at an election uses it fraudulently;
(c) without lawful excuse has in his possession more than one Voters Card;
Improper use
of voters cards

-- 39 of 93 --

40 | P a g e
or
(d) buys, sells, procures or deals, with a voters card otherwise than as
provided in this Act; commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
a maximum fine of N1,000,000 or imprisonment for 12 months or both.
121. -(1) No person shall provide for the purpose of any other person to a
registration office or to a polling unit any government vehicle or boat, or any
vehicle or boat belonging to a public corporation except in respect of a person
who is ordinarily entitled to use such vehicle or boat and in emergency in
respect of an electoral officer.
(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offence and liable on conviction to a maximum fine of N 500,000 or to
imprisonment for six months or to both.
Improper use
of vehicles
122. -(1) Any person who-
(a) applies to be included in any list of voters in the name of some other
person, whether such name is that of a person living or dead or of a
fictitious person;
(b) having once to his knowledge been properly included in a list of voters
under this Act as a voter entitled to vote at any election, applies, except as
authorized by this Act, to be included in any other list of voters prepared
for any Constituency as a voter at
an election;
(c) applies for a Ballot Paper in the name of some other person, whether
such name is that of a person living or dead or of a fictitious person;
(d) having voted once at an election applies at the same election for
another ballot paper;
(e) votes or attempts to vote at an election knowing that he is not
qualified to vote at the election; or
(f) induces or procures any other person to vote at an election knowing
that such other person is not qualified to vote at the election, commits an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a maximum fine of N500,000 or
12 months imprisonment or both.
(2) Any person who commits the offence of impersonation or who aids, abets,
counsels or procures the commission of that offence, shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a maximum fine of N500,000 or
imprisonment for 12 months or both.
(3) No person charged with the offence of impersonation shall be convicted
except on the evidence of at least two witnesses.
Impersonation
and voting
when not
qualified

-- 40 of 93 --

41 | P a g e
123. -(1) Any officer appointed for the purposes of this Act, who without lawful
excuse commits any act or omits to act in breach of his official duty commits an
offence and on conviction is to a maximum fine of N500,000 or to
imprisonment for 12 months or both.
(2) Any Polling Officer who fails to report promptly at his polling unit on an
election day without lawful excuse commits an offence of dereliction of duty
and on conviction shall be liable to maximum fine of N500,000 or 12 months
imprisonment or both.
(3) Any Polling Officer who fails to discharge his lawful duties at his polling unit
without lawful excuse commits an offence of dereliction of duties and on
conviction shall be liable to a maximum fine of N500,000 or 12 months
imprisonment or both.
(4) Any person who announces or publishes an election result knowing same to
be false or which is at variance with the signed certificate of return commits
and offence and on conviction shall be liable to 36 months imprisonment.
(5) Any Returning Officer or Collation Officer who delivers or causes to be
delivered a false certificate of return knowing same to be false, commits an
offence and on conviction shall be liable to a maximum imprisonment for 3
years without an option of fine.
(6) Any person who delivers or causes to be delivered a false Certificate of
return knowing same to be false to any news media commits an offence and on
conviction shall be liable to imprisonment for 3 years.
Dereliction of
duty
124. - (1) Any person who does any of the following:
(a) directly or indirectly by himself or by any other person on his behalf,
gives, lends or agrees to give or lend, or offers any money or valuable
consideration;
(b) directly or indirectly, by himself or by any other person on his behalf,
corruptly makes any gift, loan, offer, promise, procurement or agreement to
or for any person, in order to induce such person to procure or to
endeavour to procure the return of any person as a member of a legislative
house or to an elective office or the vote of any voter at any election;
(c) upon or in consequence of any gift, loan, offer, promise, procurement or
agreement corruptly procures, or engages or promises or endeavours to
procure, the return of any person as a member of a legislative house or to
an elective office or the vote of any voter at any election;
(d) advances or pays or causes to be paid any money to or for the use of
any other person, with the intent that such money or any part thereof shall
be expended in bribery at any election, or who knowingly pays or causes
to be paid any money to any person in discharge or repayment of any
money wholly or in part expended in bribery at any election;
(e) after any election directly, or indirectly, by himself, or by any other
Bribery and
conspiracy

-- 41 of 93 --

42 | P a g e
person on his behalf receives any money or valuable consideration on
account of any person having voted or refrained from voting, or having
induced any other person to vote or refrain from voting or having induced
any candidate to refrain from canvassing for votes for himself at any such
election, commits an offence and on conviction shall be liable to a
maximum fine of N500,000 or 12 months imprisonment or both.
(2) A voter commits an offence of bribery where before or during an election
directly or indirectly himself or by any other person on his behalf, receives,
agrees or contracts for any money, gift, loan, or valuable consideration, office,
place or employment, for himself, or for any other person, for voting or
agreeing to vote or for refraining or agreeing to refrain from voting at any such
election.
(3) Nothing in this section shall extend or apply to money paid or agreed to be
paid for or on account of any lawful expenses bona fide incurred at or
concerning any election..
(4) Any person who commits the offence of bribery is liable on conviction to a
maximum fine of N500,000 or imprisonment for 12 months or both.
(5) Any person who conspires, aids or abets any other person to commit any of
the offences under this part of this Act shall be guilty of the same offence and
punishment thereto.
(6) For the purposes of this Act, a candidate shall be deemed to have
committed an offence if it was committed with his knowledge and consent or
the knowledge and consent of a person who is acting under the general or
special authority of the candidate with reference to the election.
125. -(1) Every person in attendance at a polling unit including every officer charged
with the conduct of an election and his or her assistants and every polling
agent and candidate in attendance at a polling station or at the collation centre,
as the case may be, shall maintain and aid in maintaining the secrecy of the
voting.
(2) No person in attendance at a polling booth under this section shall, except
for some purpose authorized by law, communicate to any person information as
to the name or number on the register of any voter who has or has not voted
at the place of voting.
(3) No person shall:
(a) interfere with a voter casting his vote, or by any other means obtain
or attempt to
obtain in a polling unit information as to the candidate for whom a voter
in that place
is about to vote for or has voted for; or
(b) communicate at any time to any other person information obtained
in a polling unit as to the candidate to whom a voter is about to vote or
has voted for.
(4) Any person acting contrary to the provisions of this section commits an
Requirement of
secrecy in
voting

-- 42 of 93 --

43 | P a g e
offence and shall be liable upon conviction to a maximum fine of N100,000 or
to imprisonment for 6 months or both.
126. -(1)Any person who:
(a) votes at an election or induces or procures any person to vote at an
election, knowing that he or such person is prohibited from voting thereat; or
(b) before or during an election, publishes any statement of the withdrawal of a
candidate at such election knowing it to be false or reckless as to its truth or
falsity; or
(c) before or during an election publishes any statement as to the personal
character or conduct of a candidate calculated to prejudice the chance of
election of the candidate or to promote or procure the election of another
candidate and such statement is false and was published without reasonable
grounds for belief by the person publishing it that the statement is true,
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a maximum fine of
N100,000 or imprisonment for a term of 6 months or both.
Wrongful
voting and
false
statements
127. -(1) Any person who knowingly votes or attempts to vote in a Constituency in
respect of which his name is not on the register of voters commits an offence
and is liable on conviction to a maximum fine of N100,000 or to imprisonment
for a term of 6 months or both.
(2) Any person who knowingly brings into a polling unit during an election a
voters card issued to another person commits an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine of N100,000 or to imprisonment for 6 months or both.
Voting by
unregistered
person
128. Any person who at an election acts or incites others to act in a disorderly
manner commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a maximum fine
of N500,000 or imprisonment for a term of 12 months or both.
Disorderly
conduct at
elections
129. -(1) No person shall on the date on which an election is held do any of the
following acts or things in a polling unit or within a distance of 300 metres of a
polling unit-
(a) canvass for votes;
(b) solicit for the vote of any voter;
(c) persuade any voter not to vote for any particular candidate;
(d) persuade any voter not to vote at the election;
(e) shout slogans concerning the election;
(f) be in possession of any offensive weapon or wear any dress or have any
facial or other decoration which in any event is calculated to intimidate
voters;
(g) exhibit, wear or tender any notice, symbol, photograph or party card
referring to the
election;
(h) use any vehicle bearing the colour or symbol of a political party by any
means whatsoever;
(i) loiter without lawful excuse after voting or after being refused to vote;
Offences on
election day

-- 43 of 93 --

44 | P a g e
(j) snatch or destroy any election materials; and
(k) blare siren.
(2) No person shall within the vicinity of a polling unit or collation centre on the
day of which an election is held:
(a) convene, hold or attend any public meeting during the hours of poll as
may be prescribed by the Commission;
(b) unless appointed under this Act to make official announcements, operate
any megaphone, amplifier or public address apparatus;
(c) wear or carry any badge, poster, banner, flag or symbol relating to a
political party or to the election.
(3) A person who contravenes any of the provisions of this section commits an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N100,000 or imprisonment
for 6 months for every such offence.
(4) Any person who snatches or destroys any election material shall be liable on
conviction to 24 months imprisonment.
130. A person who—
(a) corruptly by himself or by any other person at any time after the date of an
election has been announced, directly or indirectly gives or provides or pays
money to or for any person for the purpose of corruptly influencing that person
or any other person to vote or refrain from voting at such election, or on
account of such person or any other person having voted or refrained from
voting at such election; or
(b) being a voter, corruptly accepts or takes money or any other inducement
during any of the period stated in paragraph (a) of this section, commits an
offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of N100,000 or 12 months
imprisonment or both.
Undue
Influence
131. (1) A person who:
(a) directly or indirectly, by himself or by another person on his behalf, makes
use of or threatens to make use of any force, violence or restrain;
(b) inflicts or threatens to inflict by himself or by any other person, any minor
or serious injury, damage, harm or loss on or against a person in order to
induce or compel that person to vote or refrain from voting, or on account of
such person having voted or refrained from voting; or
(c) by abduction, duress, or a fraudulent device or contrivance, impedes or
prevents the free use of the vote by a voter or thereby compels, induces, or
prevails on a voter to give or refrain from giving his vote,
(d) by preventing any political aspirants from free use of the media,
designated vehicles, mobilization of political support and campaign at an
election, commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of N1,000,000
or imprisonment for 3 years.
Threatening

-- 44 of 93 --

45 | P a g e
132. The offences referred to in this Act shall apply to recall of a member of a
Legislative House and a member of an Area Council.
Offences
relating to
Recall
133.
PART VIII - DETERMINATION OF ELECTION PETITIONS ARISING
FROM ELECTIONS
-(1) No election and return at an election under this Bill shall be questioned in
any manner other than by a petition complaining of an undue election or undue
return (in this Bill referred to as an "election petition") presented to the
competent tribunal or court in accordance with the provisions of the
Constitution or of this Bill, and in which the person elected or returned is joined
as a party.
(2) In this part "tribunal or court" means—
(a) in the case of Presidential or Governorship election, the court of
Appeal; and
(b) in the case of any other elections under this Bill, the election
tribunal established under the Constitution or by this Bill.
(3) The election tribunals shall—
(a) be constituted not later than 14 days before the election; and
(b) when constituted, open their registries for business
7 days before the
election.
Proceedings to
question an
Election
134. -(1) ―(1) An election petition shall be filed within 21 days after the date of the
declaration of results of the elections;
(2) An election tribunal shall deliver its judgment in writing within 180 days
from the date of the filing of the petition;
(3) An appeal from a decision of an election tribunal or court shall be heard and
disposed of within 90 days from the date of the delivery of judgment of the
tribunal;
(4) The court in all appeals from election tribunals may adopt the practice of
first giving its decision and reserving the reasons thereto for the decision to a
later date;
Time for
presenting
Election
Petition
135. - (1) There shall be established for the Federal Capital Territory one or more
Election Tribunals (in this Act referred to as the Area Council Election Tribunal)
which shall, to the exclusion of any other court or tribunal, have original
jurisdiction to hear and determine any question as to whether:
Establishment
of Area Council
Election
Tribunal

-- 45 of 93 --

46 | P a g e
(a) any person has been validly elected to the office of Chairman, Vice-
Chairman or Councillor;
(b) the term of office of any person elected to the office of Chairman, Vice-
Chairman or Councillor has ceased;
(c) the seat of a member of an Area Council has become vacant; and
(d) a question or petition brought before the Area Council Election Tribunal
has been properly or improperly brought;
(2) An Area Council Election Tribunal shall consist of a Chairman and two other
members.
(3) The Chairman shall be a Chief Magistrate and two other members shall be
appointed from among Magistrates of the Judiciary of the Federal Capital
Territory, Abuja and legal practitioners of at least 10 years post-call experience,
non-legal practitioners of unquestionable integrity or other members of the
Judiciary of the Federal Capital Territory not below the rank of a Magistrate.
136. -(1) There shall be established for the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) the Area
Council Election Appeal Tribunal which shall to the exclusion of any other court
or tribunal hear and determine appeals arising from the decision of the Area
Council Election Petition Tribunal.
(2) The decision of the Area Council Election Appeal Tribunal in respect of Area
Council elections shall be final.
(3) An Area Council Election Appeal Tribunal shall consist of a Chairman and
two other members and the Chairman shall be a Judge of the High Court and
the
two other members shall be appointed from among Judges of the High
Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, Kadis of the Sharia Court of
Appeal of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, Judges of the Customary Court
of Appeal or other members of the Judiciary of the Federal Capital Territory,
Abuja not below the rank of a Chief Magistrate.
(4) The quorum of an Area Council Election Tribunal shall be the Chairman and
one other member.
Establishment
of Area Council
Election Appeal
Tribunal
137. -(1) An election petition may be presented by one or more of the following
persons—
(a) a candidate in an election;
(b) a political party which participated in the election.
(2) A person whose election is complained of is, in this Bill, referred to as the
respondent.
(3) If the petitioner complains of the conduct of an Electoral Officer, a Presiding
or Returning Officer, it shall not be necessary to join such officers or persons
notwithstanding the nature of the complaint and the Commission shall, in this
instance, be—
(a) made a respondent; and
(b) deemed to be defending the petition for itself and on behalf its officers
or such other persons.
Persons
entitled to
present
Election
Petitions

-- 46 of 93 --

47 | P a g e
138. -(1) An election may be questioned on any of the following grounds, that is to
say:
(a) that a person whose election is questioned was, at the time of the
election, not qualified to contest the election;
(b) that the election was invalid by reason of corrupt practices or non-
compliance with the provisions of this Act;
(c) that the respondent was not duly elected by majority of lawful votes
cast at the election; or
(d) that the petitioner or its candidate was validly nominated but was
unlawfully excluded from the election.
(2) An act or omission which may be contrary to an instruction or directive of
the Commission or of an officer appointed for the purpose of the election but
which is not contrary to the provisions of this Act shall not of itself be a ground
for questioning the election.
Grounds of
petition
139. -(1) An Election shall not be liable to be invalidated by reason of non
compliance with the provisions of this Act if it appears to the Election Tribunal
or Court that the election was conducted substantially in accordance with the
principles of this Act and that the non compliance did not affect
substantially the result of the election.
(2) An election shall not be liable to be questioned by reason of a defect in the
title, or want of title of the person conducting the election or acting in the office
provided such a person has the right or authority of the Commission to conduct
the election.
Certain defects
not to
invalidate
election
140. -(1) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, if the Tribunal or the Court as the
case may be, determines that a candidate who was returned as elected was not
validly elected on any ground, the Tribunal or the Court shall nullify the
election.
(2) Where an election tribunal or court nullifies an election on the ground that
the person who obtained the highest votes at the election was not qualified to
contest the election, the election tribunal or court shall not declare the person
with the second highest votes as elected, but shall order a fresh election.
(3) If the Tribunal or the Court determines that a candidate who was returned
as elected was not validly elected on the ground that he did not score the
majority of valid votes cast at the election, the Election Tribunal or the Court,
as the case may be, shall declare as elected the candidate who scored the
highest number of valid votes cast at the election and satisfied the
requirements of the Constitution and this Act.
(4) Subject to the provision of subparagraph (2) of paragraph 53 of the First
Schedule to this Act, on the motion of a respondent in an election petition, the
Election Tribunal or the Court, as the case may be, may strike out an election
petition on the ground that it is not in accordance with the provisions of this
Nullification of
election by
Tribunal or
Court

-- 47 of 93 --

48 | P a g e
part of this Act, or the provisions of First Schedule of this Act.
141. An election tribunal or court shall not under any circumstance declare any
person a winner at an election in which such a person has not fully participated
in all the stages of the said election.
Effect of non-
participation in
an election
142. Without prejudice to the provisions of section 294 subsection (1) of the
Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria an election petition and an
appeal arising therefrom under this Act shall be given accelerated hearing and
shall have precedence over all other cases or matters before the Tribunal or
Court.
Accelerated
hearing of
election
petitions
143. (1) If the Election Tribunal or the Court, as the case may be, determines that a
candidate returned as elected was not validly elected, then if notice of appeal
against that decision is given within 21 days from the date of the decision, the
candidate returned as elected shall, notwithstanding the contrary decision of
the Election Tribunal or the Court, remain in office pending the determination of
the appeal.
(2) If the Election Tribunal or the Court, as the case maybe, determines that a
candidate returned as elected was not validly elected, the candidate returned
as elected shall, notwithstanding the contrary decision of the Election Tribunal
or the Court, remain in office pending the expiration of the period of 21 days
within which an appeal may be brought.
Person elected
to remain in
office pending
determination
of appeal
144. -(1) Where the Commission, an Electoral Officer, Retuning Officer or any other
official of the Commission has been joined as a respondent in an election
petition, a Legal Officer of the Commission or a Legal Practitioner engaged by
the Commission shall represent the Commission, Electoral Officer, Presiding
Officer, Returning Officer or other official of the Commission at the Tribunal or
Court.
(2) The Attorney-General of the State concerned (acting in person or through
any of his Legal Officers) or the Attorney General of the Federation (acting in
person or through any of his Legal Officers) may represent the Commission and
the Officers referred to in subsection (1) of this section with the written consent
or authority of the Commission.
(3) A private Legal Practitioner or Legal Officer engaged by the Commission
pursuant to subsection (1) and (2) of this Section shall be entitled to be paid
such professional fees
or honorarium, as the case may be, to be determined by the Commission.
Legal
representation
of Commission,
etc.
145. -(1) The rules of procedure to be adopted for election petitions and appeals
arising therefrom shall be as set out in the First Schedule to this Act.
(2) The President of the Court of Appeal may issue practice directions to
election tribunals.
Rules of
Procedure for
election
petition

-- 48 of 93 --

49 | P a g e
146.
PART X - MISCELLANEOUS
No person holding an elective office to which this Act relates or a registered
member of a Political Party shall be eligible for or be appointed to carry out the
duties of a returning officer, an electoral officer, presiding officer or a poll clerk;
and any officer appointed to carry out any of those duties shall be ineligible for
nomination as a candidate for election while he continues to hold any such
appointment.
Persons
disqualified
from acting as
election
officers
147. - (1) The Commission may prescribe:
(a) a scale of remuneration for officers appointed under this Act for the
conduct of elections;
(b) a scale of maximum charges in respect of other expenses incurred by
an Electoral
Officer, a Presiding Officer or a Returning Officer in connection with an
election, and may revise the scale as it thinks fit or expedient.
(2) An Electoral Officer, Presiding Officer, or Returning Officer shall, in addition
to any remuneration prescribed under paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of this
section be entitled to such sums in respect of expenses not exceeding the
prescribed scale, in connection with the conduct of an election as are
reasonable.
(3) The Commission may pay such honoraria as it may determine to all other
persons and officers who may be involved in one way or the other in
conducting an election under this Act, or in carrying out any task in connection
with an election or election petition arising therefrom.
(4) All fees and other remunerations approved under subsection (1) of this
section shall be paid from the Fund established under section 3 (1) of this Act
and shall be paid in such manner as the Commission deems fit.
Election
Expenses by
the
Commission
148. No person who has voted in any election under this Act shall, in any legal
proceedings arising out of the election, be required to say for whom he voted.
Secrecy of
Ballot
149. The Commission shall consider any recommendation made to it by a tribunal
with respect to the prosecution by it of any person for an offence disclosed in
any election petition.
Prosecution of
Offence
disclosed in
Election
Petition
150. -(1) An offence committed under this Act shall be triable in a Magistrate Court
or a High Court of a State in which the offence is committed, or the Federal
Capital Territory, Abuja.
(2) A prosecution under this Act shall be undertaken by legal Officers of the
Trial of
offences

-- 49 of 93 --

50 | P a g e
Commission or any Legal Practitioner appointed by it.
151. -(1) An order for an inspection of a polling document or an inspection of a
document or any other packet in the custody of the Chief National Electoral
Commissioner or any other officer of the Commission may be made by the
election tribunal or the court if it is satisfied that the inspection is required for
the purpose of instituting, maintaining or defending an election petition.
(2) A document other than a document referred to in subsection (1) of this
section relating to an election and which is retained by the Chief National
Electoral Commissioner or any other officer of the Commission in accordance
with this section shall be open for inspection on an order made by the Election
Tribunal or a Court in exercise of its powers to compel the production of
documents in legal proceedings, but shall not otherwise be open for inspection.
Inspection of
documents
152. Without prejudice to the other provisions of this Act, the Commission may
delegate any of its powers and functions to any National Electoral
commissioner, Resident Electoral Commissioner, Electoral Officer, any other
officer of the Commission or any other officer appointed under the provision of
this Act subject to any conditions or limitations which it may consider necessary
or expedient to impose and no such delegation shall be construed to limit the
right of the Commission to exercise such power, itself.
Delegation of
Powers of the
Commission
153. The Commission may, subject to the provisions of this Act, issue regulations,
guidelines, or manuals for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this
Act and for its administration thereof.
Regulations
154. The Commission shall have power to conduct civic education and enlightenment
in the print and electronic media to enhance its functions.
Civic education
by the
Commission
155. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Act, any defect or error arising
from any actions taken by an official of the Commission in relation to any
notice, form or document made or given or other thing whatsoever done by
him in pursuance of the provisions of the Constitution or of this Act, or any
rules made thereunder remain valid, unless otherwise challenged and declared
invalid by a competent Court of Law or Tribunal.
Validation
156. In this Bill, unless the context otherwise requires—
"appointment" includes appointment to an office, confirmation of appointment,
promotion or transfer;
―Area Council‖ means Area Councils recognized and existing by virtue of section
3 (6) of the Constitution and as set out in Part II of the First Schedule thereof
and any additional Area Council provided by an Act of the National Assembly in
accordance with section 8 (5) of the Constitution.
"Association" means a body of persons (corporate or otherwise) who agree to
Interpretation

-- 50 of 93 --

51 | P a g e
act together for any common purpose and includes an association formed for
any ethnic, social, cultural, occupational or religious purpose;
"Attorney-General of the Federation" means the Chief Law Officer of the
Federation;
"Authority" includes government or government agency and corporate bodies;
"Chief Electoral Commissioner" means the Chairman of Independent National
Electoral Commission;
―Civil Servant‖ a person employed in the civil service of the Federation or of a
State or Local government;
"Clerk" means the Clerk of the National Assembly, Clerk of the State House of
Assembly, and Clerk of the Legislative House of the Local Government/Area
Council or any person acting in that capacity;
"Commission" means the Independent National Electoral Commission
established by the Constitution;
"Constitution" means the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria;
―Conviction‖ means a pronouncement by a Court or Tribunal that a person is
guilty of an offence under this Bill or under the provisions of the Constitution
whether or not any punishment is imposed on the person as a result of the
conviction. Conviction further includes admission by a person in writing,
verbally, or by conduct that he is guilty, or have committed or aided and
abetted the commission of the offence or crime concerned;
The ―Conduct‖ referred to in this subsection is, for instance, where a person
reimburses the sums of money or any parts thereof obtained through corrupt
practice in order to avoid prosecution;
"Decision", means in relation to court or tribunal, any determination of that
court or tribunal and includes a judgment, decree, conviction, sentence, order
or recommendation;
―Election‖ means any election held under this Bill and includes a referendum;
"Electoral Officer" means a staff of the Commission who is the head of the
Commission's office at a Local Government Area or Area Council level;
"Federation" means the Federal Republic of Nigeria;
"Function" includes power and duty;
"General Election" means an election held in the Federation at large which may
be at all levels, and at regular intervals to select officers to serve after the
expiration of the full terms of their predecessors;
"Government" includes the Government of the Federation, of a State or of a
Local Government Area or Area Council, or any person or organ exercising
power or authority on its behalf;

-- 51 of 93 --

52 | P a g e
"House" or ―Legislative House" means the Senate, House of Representatives,
House of Assembly of a State and includes the Legislative House of a Local
Government Area or Area Council;
"Leader of an association" means every person holding an executive position in
that association, including in particular, the Chairman, Secretary or Treasurer of
the association and every member of its committee of management, however
described;
"Leader of a political party" means every person holding an executive position
in that political party, including in particular, the Chairman, Secretary or
Treasurer of the political party and every member of its committee of
management, however described;
"Legal incapacity" means a person disqualified under the Constitution or the
present Act or any other Law, Rules and Regulations from registering as a voter
or from contesting elections;
"Local Government" means Local Government recognized and existing by virtue
of section 3(6) of the Constitution and set out in Parts I and II of the First
Schedule thereof and any additional Local Government provided for by an Act
of the National Assembly in accordance with section 8 (5) of the Constitution;
"National Assembly" means the Senate and the House of Representatives;
"offensive weapon or missile" includes any cannon, gun, rifle, carbine, revolver,
pistol or any other firearm, bow and arrow, spear, cutlass, knife, dagger, axe,
cudgel, or any other thing capable of being used as an offensive weapon or
missile, including teargas, acid, and any inflammable substance capable of
injuring a person;
"Office‖ or "Public Office" means any of the offices the occupation to which is
by election or appointment under this Bill;
"Petition" means an election petition under this Bill;
―Polling Agent‖ means a person representing a political party or independent
candidate at the polling unit, ward, Local Government, Federal constituency,
Senatorial district, State or Federal collation centres.
"Polling unit" means the place, enclosure, booth, shade or house at which
voting takes place under this Act ;
―Political party‖ includes any association of persons whose activities includes
canvassing for votes in support of a candidate for election under this Bill and
registered by the Commission;
"Power" includes function and duty;
"President" means the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria;
"Registrar" includes Chief Registrar, Deputy Chief Registrar and Registrar of
other grades of the Supreme Court, Court of Appeal, Federal High Court and

-- 52 of 93 --

53 | P a g e
the High Court of a State;
"Registration Officer" includes supervisory assistant registration officer and
assistant registration officer;
"Resident Electoral Commissioner" means the Commissioner deployed for the
time being to a State;
"Return" means the declaration by a Returning Officer of a candidate in an
election under this Act as being the winner of that election;
―School Certificate‖ has the meaning as defined in the Constitution;
―Secret Society‖ has the meaning as defined in the Constitution.
"State" when used otherwise than in reference to one of the component parts
of the Federal Republic of Nigeria shall include government of a State;
"State Commission" means State Independent Electoral Commission established
by section 197 of the Constitution;
―Campaigning in public‖ referred to in section 99 means the campaign that
commences after the publication of the notice of election by the commission
pursuant to section 30 of this Bill;
All references in this Act to a State in the Federation shall, where appropriate,
be deemed to include references to the Federal Capital Territory.
157. The Electoral Act, 2006 is repealed.
158. This Bill may be cited as the Electoral Bill, 2010.