1. The National Council on Privatisation shall, not later than six months after
the coming into force of this Act, take such steps as are necessary under the Companies
and Allied Matters Act to incorporate a company, limited by shares, which shall be the
initial holding company for the assets and liabilities of the Authority.
2. The shares of the initial holding company on its incorporation shall be held
by the Ministry of Finance Incorporated and the Bureau of Public Enterprises in the
name of and on behalf of the Federal Government of Nigeria.
3.-(1) The National Council on Privatisation, shall by written notice in a Gazette
fix the date, (in this Act known as the "initial transfer date"), on which the assets and
liabilities of the Authority as specified in subsection (2) of this section shall be transferred
to the initial holding company.
(2) The assets and liabilities vested in the Authority as at the initial transfer date
and appearing on the audited balance sheets of the Authority, shall vest in the initial
holding company,
(3) The vesting of assets and liabilities under subsection (2) of this section shall
be provisional until final orders are issued by the National Council-on Privatisation
under this section.
(4) Within eight months from the initial transfer date, the National Council on
Privatisation shall, on the finalisation of the opening balance sheet of the initial holding
company, issue final order either confirming or specifying, the transfer of assets and
liabilities under subsection, (2) and this Part applies with necessary modifications to
the final order.
(5) The transfer of a liability or obligation under this section releases the Authority
from the liability or obligation.
Commence-
ment
Formation of
the initial
holding
company.
Cap. C 20
LFN 2004
Shareholding
in the initial
holding
company.
Transfer of
assets and
liabilities of
the Authority
to the initial
holding
company.

-- 5 of 55 --

2005 No. 6 Electric Power Sector Reform Act
(6) All bonds, hypothecations, .securities, deeds, contracts, instruments.,
documents and working arrangements that 'subsisted immediately before the initial
transfer date and to which the Authority was a party shall, on and after that date, be as
fully effective and enforceable against or in favour of the initial holding company as if,
instead of the Authority, the initial holding company had been named therein.
(7) Any cause of action or proceeding which existed or was pending by or
against the Authority immediately before the initial transfer date shall be enforced or
continued, as the case may be, on and after that date by or against the initial holding
company in the same way that it might have been enforced or continued by or against
the Authority had this Act not been passed.
(8) No action or other proceeding shall be commenced against the initial holding
company in respect of any employee, asset, liability, right or obligation that has been
transferred to the initial holding company if, had there been no transfer, the time for
commencing, the action or other proceeding would have expired.
(9) A transfer under subsection (2) of this section shall not be deemed to-
(a) constitute a breach, termination, repudiation or frustration of any contract,
including a contract of employment or insurance;
(b) constitute a breach of any Act, regulation or by-law; or
(c) constitute any event of default or force majeure;
(d) give rise to a breach, termination, repudiation or frustration of any licence,
permit or other right ;
(e) give rise to any right to terminate or repudiate a contract, licence, permit or
other right ; and
(f) give rise to any estoppels.
(10) Subsection (9) of this section does not apply to the contracts as may be
prescribed by the regulations.
(11) Subject to subsection (10) of this section nothing in this Act and nothing
done as a result of a transfer under subsection (2) of this section shall create any new
cause of action in favour of :
(a) a holder of a debt instrument that was issued by the Authority before the
initial transfer date ;
(b) a party to a contract with the Authority that was entered into before the
initial transfer date.
(12) Any guarantee or suretyship which was given or made by the Federal
Government of Nigeria or any other person in respect of any debt or obligation of the
Authority, and which was effective immediately before the initial transfer of the principal
debt or obligation, shall remain fully effective against the guarantor or surety on and
after the initial transfer date in relation to the repayment of the debt or the performance

-- 6 of 55 --

Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005 No.6
of the obligation, as the case may be, by the initial holding company to which the
principal debt or obligation was transferred.
4. Stamp duty shall not be chargeable under the Stamp Duties Act in respect of
any transfer made or transaction entered into pursuant to this Part on which, except
for the exemption granted under this section, stamp duty would have been payable
and in particular, and without derogation from the foregoing, no stamp duty shall be
chargeable:
(a) during the incorporation of the initial holding company and the successor
companies or any subsequent increase to their authorised share capital, prior to the
transfer of a majority interest to one or more private investors;
(b) in respect of any security issued in compliance with a transfer order issued
under section 10 (7) ;
(c) where any convertible securities were issued in compliance with a transfer
order issued under section 10 (7), in respect of the exercise of the conversion rights
attached to any such security; or
(d) in respect of any other transfer of rights and assets pursuant to this Part.
5.-(1) With effect from the initial transfer date, every person employed by the
Authority immediately before that date shall be transferred to the service of either the
Commission or the initial holding company, on terms not less favourable than those
enjoyed by him immediately prior to his transfer.
(2) The service rendered by an employee transferred pursuant to subsection (1)
of this section to the Authority shall be deemed to be service with the initial holding
company for the purpose of determining employment-related-entitlements as specified
in relevant laws of employment in Nigeria.
(3) Until such time as conditions of service are drawn. up by the initial holding
company or the Commission, as the case may be :
(a) the terms and conditions of service applicable to employees of the Authority
shall continue to apply to every person transferred to the initial holding company
or to the Commission as if every such person were still in the service of the
Authority ; and
(b) the initial holding company shall continue to contribute towards a pension
scheme to which the Authority was contributing in respect of persons in the employ
of the Authority, prior to the initial transfer date.
6.-(1) The National Council on Privatisation may give the Board of Directors
of the Authority directions in writing in order to ensure the proper transfer of the
assets and liabilities of the Authority to the initial holding company, and the Board of
Directors shall, without delay, comply with every such direction.
(2) Without derogation from subsection (1) of this section, directions given
under that subsection may provide for:
Exemption
from stamp
duty
Cap. 58 LFN
2004.
Transfer of
emplo-
yees to the
initial holding
company' and
to the
Commission,
etc.
Direction to
the Author-
ity.

-- 7 of 55 --

2005 No.6 Electric Power Sector Reform Act
.
(a) the cessation of all or any of the functions of the Authority ;
(b) the termination of any contract entered into between the Authority and an
person, provided that no such direction shall authorize the Authority to commit
unlawful breach of any such contract; and
(c) the production of any report and the provision of any information concerning
the conduct of the Authority or the Board of Directors of the Authority or anything
done by or on behalf of the Authority or the Board of Directors of the Authority.
7. On the initial transfer date, the Commission shall issue an interim licence, to
the initial holding company, which shall be valid for a period not exceeding eighteen
months.
8. The National Council on Privatisation shall, not later than eight months ate
the formation of the- initial holding company under section 1 of this Act, take such
steps as are necessary under the Companies and Allied Matters Act to incorporate
such number of additional companies, limited by shares, as the National Council on
Privatisation may deem appropriate, which shall be the successor companies for
assuming the assets and liabilities of the initial holding company including, but not
limited to, companies with functions relating to the generation, transmission, trading
distribution and bulk supply and resale of electricity.
9. All the respective shares of each of the successor companies from the dates
their incorporation shall be held jointly in the name of the Ministry of Finance
Incorporated and the Bureau of Public Enterprises for and on behalf of the Federal
Government of Nigeria.
10.-(1) The National Council on Privatisation shall, not later than one year
from the initial transfer date, by an order, require the initial holding company to transfer,
employees, assets, liabilities, rights and obligations of the initial holding company to
a successor company, as specified in the order.
(2) A transfer order shall be binding on the initial holding company, the transferee
and all other persons.
(3) Subsection·(2) of this section applies despite any general or special Act or
any rule of law, including an Act or rule of law that requires notice or registration of
transfers.
(4) A transfer order shall not require the consent of the initial holding company
or the successor company, provided-that consent of the transferee shall be required if
the transferee is a person other than a successor company incorporated by the National
Council on Privatisation Wider section 8.
(5) A transfer order may specify and describe, employees, assets, liabilities,
rights or obligations to be transferred:
(a) by reference to specific employees, assets, liabilities, rights or obligations;
Licensing of
the initial
holding
company.
Formation of
successor
companies
Shareholdings
in the successor
companies.
Transfer of
assets and
Liabilities of
the
initial holding
company to
the successor
companies

-- 8 of 55 --

Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005 No.6
(b) by reference to any class of employees, assets, liabilities, rights or
obligations; or
(c) partly in accordance with subsection (5)(a) of this section and partly in
accordance with subsection (5)(b) of this section.
(6) With effect from the date specified in the relevant transfer order, all bonds,
hypothecations, securities, deeds, contracts, instruments, documents and working
arrangements that subsisted immediately before the subsequent transfer date and to
which the initial holding company was a party shall, on and after that date, be as fully
effective and enforceable against or in favour of the designated successor company as
if, instead of the initial holding company, the designated successor company had been
named therein.
(7) A transfer order may -
(a) require the initial holding company or the transferee to pay for anything
transferred by or pursuant to the order and may specify to whom the payment shall
be made;
(b) fix the amount of the payment; specify a method for determining the amount
of the payment; or provide that the amount of the payment be determined by the
National Council on Privatisation or a person designated by the National Council
on Privatisation;
(c) require that the payment be made in cash, by set off, through the issuance of
securities or in any other form specified by the order;
(d) fix the value of anything transferred by or pursuant to the order;
(e) specify a method consistent with international accounting practices for
determining the value of anything transferred by or pursuant to the order;
(f) provide that the value of anything transferred by or pursuant to the order be
determined by the National Council on Privatisation or a person designated by the
National Council on Privatisation in a manner consistent with international
accounting practices; provided that the value specified in the transfer order ought
to have been calculated in accordance with international accounting practices;
(g) specify the date that a transfer takes effect and any interest in property that
is transferred by the order vests in the transferee on that date ;
(h) provide that a transfer shall not take effect until payment has been made for
anything transferred by or pursuant to the order;
(i) provide that a transfer shall be deemed to have taken effect on a date earlier
than the date the transfer order is made, but the effective date shall not be earlier
than the day on which the relevant successor company was formed;
(j) provide that transfers specified in the order and other transactions associated
with the transfers shall be deemed to have occurred in a sequence and at times
specified in the order;

-- 9 of 55 --

2005 No. 6 Electric Power Sector Reform Act
(k) require the initial holding company or a transferee:
(i) to enter into any written agreement or execute any instrument specified in,
the order; and
(ii) to register in accordance. with the order any agreement or instrument
entered into or executed under subsection 7(k)(i) ;
(l) provide that any liability or obligation that is transferred by the order may be,
enforced against the initial holding company, the transferee, or both of them; and
that any right that is transferred by the order may be enforced by the initial holding
company, the transferee, or both of them; or
(m) impose conditions on the exercise of powers by the transferee that are related
to employees, assets, liabilities, rights or obligations transferred by the transfer
order, including a condition that the powers be exercised only with the approval of
the Commission.
(8) A transfer order may contain provisions dealing with other matters not
specifically referred to in this Part that the National Council on Privatisation considers
necessary or advisable in connection with a transfer.
11.---(1) A statement, in a registered document to which a successor company is
a party, that land described in the document was transferred to the person from the
initial holding company by or pursuant to a transfer order, and any other statement in
the document relating to the transfer order, shall be deemed to be conclusive. evidence
of the facts stated.
(2) Nothing in subsection (1) of this section creates, for any person, an interest
in land that the initial holding company did not have.
12. Subject to section 10 (7) (1), the transfer of a liability or obligation under this
Part releases the initial holding company from the liability or obligation.
13. Subject to section 10 (7) (1), any cause of action or proceeding which existed
or was pending by or against the initial holding company immediately before the
subsequent transfer date shall be enforced or continued, as the case may be, on or after
the subsequent transfer date by or against the designated successor company .in the
same way that it might have been enforced or continued by or against the initial holding
company.
14. An action or other proceeding shall not be commenced against a transferee
in respect of any employee, asset, liability, right or obligation that had been transferred
to the transferee if, had there been no transfer, the time for commencing the action or
other proceeding would have expired.
15.-(1) A transfer by or pursuant to a transfer order shall not be deemed to-
(a) constitute a breach, termination, repudiation or frustration of any contract,
including a contract of employment or insurance;
Conclusive
evidence.
Release from
liability or
obligation.
Enforcement
or
continuation
of any cause
of action or
proceedings.
Limitation of
suit against
transferee.
A transfer
shall not be
deemed to
constitute a
breach of
contract.

-- 10 of 55 --

Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005 No.6
(b) constitute a breach of any Act, regulation or bye-law;
(c) constitute any event of default or force majeure;
(d) give rise to a breach, termination, repudiation or frustration of any licence,
permit or other right;
(e) give rise to any right to terminate or repudiate a contract, licence, permit or
other right; or
(f) give rise to any estoppels.
(2) Subsection (1) of this section does not apply to such contracts as may be
prescribed by the regulations.
(3) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, nothing in this Act and nothing
done by or pursuant to a transfer order creates any new cause of action in favour of:
(a) a holder of a debt instrument that was issued by the initial holding company
(or deemed to have been issued by it) before the date of its transfer as specified in
the relevant transfer order;
(b) a party to a contract with the initial holding company or deemed to have
been issued by it under section 4(5) that was entered into before the date of its
transfer as specified in the relevant transfer order.
16. The initial holding company shall provide a transferee with all records or
copies of records, that are in its custody or control and that relate to an officer, employee,
asset, liability, right or obligation that is transferred by or pursuant to a transfer order,
including personal information.
17. The National Council on Privatisation may, at any time within one year
after making a transfer order, make a further order amending the transfer order in any
way that the National Council on Privatisation considers necessary or advisable,
including such order or orders as may be necessary to rectify the transfer of any of the
employees, assets, liabilities, rights and obligations pursuant to a verification or an
audit of the employees, assets and liabilities of the initial holding company as at the
date of the relevant transfer order, and this Part applies with necessary modifications
to the amendment.
18.-(1) The National Council on Privatisation may make regulations-
(a) supplementing the provisions of this Part and governing the transfer of,
employees, assets, liabilities, rights and obligations under this Part ;
(b) prescribing contracts or classes of contracts to which section 15 (1) does not
apply, subject to such conditions or restrictions as may be prescribed by the
regulations.
(2) A regulation made under this section may be general or particular in its
application.
.
Provision of
records, etc.
to a
transferee.
Further order
amending a
transfer order.
Regulations.

-- 11 of 55 --

2005 No.6 Electric Power Sector Reform Act
19. Any guarantee or surety-ship which was given or made or is deemed to be.
given or made under section 3 (12) by the Federal Government of Nigeria or any other
person in respect of any debt or obligation of the initial holding company, and which
was effective immediately before the subsequent transfer of the principal debt or
obligation, shall remain fully effective against the guarantor or surety on or after the:
subsequent transfer date in relation to the repayment of the debt or the performance of
the obligation, as the case may be, by the designated successor company to which the
principal debt or obligation was transferred.
20. The consideration for the transfer of assets of the initial holding company to
a designated successor company shall be as set out in a transfer order issued under
section 10(7).
21.-(1) Every person employed by the initial holding company immediately
before the date specified in the relevant transfer order pursuant to wh.ch he is transferred
shall be transferred to the service of a designated successor company, on terms not
less favourable than those enjoyed by him immediately prior to the transfer.
(2) The service rendered by an employee transferred pursuant to a transfer order,
shall be the service with the designated successor company for the' purpose
determining employment-related-entitlements as specified by relevant laws
employment in Nigeria.
(3) Until such time as conditions of service are drawn up by the designate
successor company -
(a) the terms and conditions of service, applicable to employees of the initial
holding company shall continue to apply to every person transferred to the.
designated successor company as if every such person were still in the service of
the initial holding company;
(b) an employee may be permitted to continue to contribute towards a pension
he was contributing to when he was in the employ of the initial holding company;
and
(c) the designated successor company shall continue to contribute towards a
pension scheme to which the initial holding company was contributing in respect
of employees in the employ of the initial holding company, prior to the date of
transfer.
22.-(1) The National Council on Privatisation may give the Board of Directors
of the initial holding company directions in writing in order to ensure the proper
transfer of the assets and liabilities of the initial holding company to the designated
successor companies or other transferees, and the Board of Directors shall, without
delay, comply with every such direction.
(2) Without derogation from subsection (1), directions given under that
subsection may provide for:
Guarantee or
surety.
Consideration
for the transfer
of assets to
successor
companies.
Transfer of
employees to
the designated
successor
companies and
conditions of
services of
transferred
employees.
Directions to
the initial
holding
company.

-- 12 of 55 --

Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005 No.6
(a) the cessation of any or all functions of the initial holding company and its
voluntary liquidation;
(b) the termination of any contract entered into between the initial holding
company and any person, provided that no such direction shall authorise the initial
holding company to commit an unlawful breach of any such contract; and
(c) the production of any report and the provision of any information concerning
the conduct of the initial holding company or the Board of Directors of the initial
holding company or anything done by or on behalf of the initial holding company
or the Board of Directors of the initial holding company.
23.-(1) On the transfer date specified in the relevant transfer order, the
Commission shall issue an appropriate interim licence, to each successor company,
which shall be valid for a period not exceeding one year.
(2) A successor company that has received an interim licence under subsection
(1) shall, within six months thereafter, apply to the Commission for a regular licence
in accordance with the provisions of Part IV of this Act.
24.-(1) The National Council on Privatisation may, at any time and by such
means as it deems appropriate, begin the process of privatisation of the successor
companies that are holders of generation licences, distribution licences or a transmission
licence, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Enterprises (Privatisation and
Commercialization) Act.
(2) Until such time the Minister has made a declaration in accordance with
subsection (3) of this section, the Commission shall prepare, each year, a report for
the Minister as to the potential for competition in the Nigerian electricity supply
industry and these' reports shall present the Commission's analysis and
recommendations as to whether the Nigerian electricity supply industry has developed
to the point where a more competitive market ought to be established under section
26, having regard to :
(a) the degree of privatisation that has occurred;
(b) the existence of a sufficiently large number of potentially competitive entities,
so as to avoid the likelihood of an abusive market power; and
(c) the existence of other preconditions, including the necessary metering and
information technology infrastructures, required for the operation of a more
competitive electricity market.
(3) The Minister shall present to the President and the National, Council on
Privatisation and National Assembly, each report submitted by the Commission under
subsection (2) of this section and when the Minister, in consultation with the President
and the National Council on Privatisation is satisfied that the electricity market in
Nigeria has developed to the point where a more competitive market ought to be
established pursuant to section 26 of this Act, having regard to the criteria described
in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of subsection 2 of this section, and the Minister shall
issue a declaration that a more competitive electricity market is to be initiated.
Licensing of
the successor
companies.
Processing of
privatisation
of the
successor
companies.

-- 13 of 55 --

2005 No. 6 Electric Power Sector Reform Act
PART II - DEVELOPMENT OF A COMPETITIVE ELECTRICITY MARKET
25. Immediately following the issuance of interim licences to the successor
companies in accordance with section 23, and prior to the declaration by the Minister,
under section 24 (3), that a more competitive market is to be initiated:
(a) the trading licensee holding a bulk purchase and resale licence under section
67(2), or an interim licence for this purpose, and to which the function of bulk
procurement and bulk sale of power and ancillary services has been transferred
pursuant to Part I of this Act, shall engage in the purchase and resale of electrical,-
power and ancillary services from independent 'power producers and from the
successor generation companies, in accordance with its licence ;
(b) the successor company that has been issued both a transmission licence and
a system operation licence pursuant to section 65(2), or an interim licence for these
purposes, shall engage in the transmission of electricity and in system operation,
including the procurement of ancillary services, in accordance with its licence ;
(c) successor generation companies shall, in accordance with their licences,
sell electrical power to the trading licensee described in subsection (a),
distribution companies and eligible customers, pursuant to the terms of an
contracts formed with such distribution companies and eligible customers;
(d) successor generation companies shall, in accordance with their licences, sell
ancillary services to the trading licensee described in subsection (a) or the successor
company identified in subsection (b), pursuant to contracts that allow for the
novation of the rights and obligations of the successor company identified in
subsection (b) to an independent system operator in the event of a transfer of the
obligation of system operation by the successor company to an independent system
operator under section 26(7) ;
(e) independent power producers shall, in accordance with their licences, sell
electrical power to either:
(i) the trading licensee described in subsection (a) pursuant to contracts
that allow for the novation of the rights and obligations of the trading licensee
described in subsection (a) to one or more other licensees, as specified in the
contract, following the declaration of a substantially privatised market under
section 24 ; or
(ii) distribution companies and eligible customers, pursuant to the terms of
any contracts formed with such distribution companies and eligible customers.
(f) independent power producers shall, in accordance with their licenses, sell
ancillary services to either:
(i) the trading licensee described in subsection (a), pursuant to contracts
that allow for the novation of the rights and obligations of the trading licensee
described in subsection (a) to one or more other licensees, as specified in the
contract, following the declaration of a substantially privatised market under
section 24 ; or
Competition
during the
pre-
privatisation
stage.

-- 14 of 55 --

Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005 No. 6
(ii) the successor company identified in subsection (b), pursuant to contracts
that allow for the novation of the rights and obligations of the successor company
identified in subsection (b) to an independent system operator in the event of a
transfer of the obligation of system operation by the successor company to an
independent system operator under section 26 (7).
26.- (1) Immediately following the declaration by the Minister, under' section
24 (3), that a more competitive market is to be initiated:
(a) the trading licensee described in section 25 (a) shall not enter into any further
contracts for the purchase of electrical power or ancillary services and it shall, in
accordance with its licence, begin the process of novating its existing rights and
obligations to purchase electrical power and ancillary services to other licensees;
(b) successor generation companies shall, in accordance with their licences,
sell electrical power to distribution companies and eligible customers, under the
terms of any contracts existing prior to the declaration by the Minister, pursuant to
section 24 (3), or under the terms of any new contracts with distribution companies
and eligible customers;
(c) successor generation companies shall, in accordance with their licences, sell
ancillary services either to :
(i) the successor company identified in section 25 (b), under the terms of
the contracts entered into prior to the declaration by the Minister, under
section 24 (3), until such contracts are novated to an independent system
operator, or under the terms of any new contracts with such successor company;
provided that such contracts should allow for novation to the independent
system operator in the same manner as specified in section 25 (d) ; or
(ii) the independent system operator, once it has been established under
section 25 (d) ;
(d) independent power producers shall, in accordance with their licences, sell
electrical power:
(i) to the trading licensee described in section 25 (a), under the terms of the
contracts formed with that trading licensee prior to a declaration by the Minister,
under section 24 (3), until such contracts are novated to distribution companies
or eligible customers; and, following such novations ;
(ii) to distribution companies and eligible customers, under the terms of any
contracts formed with such distribution companies and eligible customers ;
(e) independent power producers shall, in accordance with their licences, sell
ancillary services:
(i) to the trading licensee described in section 25 (a), under the terms of the
contracts formed with that trading licensee prior to the declaration by the Minister
under section 24 (3), until such contracts are novated to distribution companies
or eligible customers; and, following such novations ;
Competition
during the
post
privatisation
stage.

-- 15 of 55 --

2005 No. 6 Electric Power Sector Reform Act
(ii) to the successor company identified in section 25 (b), under the terms of
the contracts entered into prior to the declaration by the Minister under section
24 (3), until such contracts are novated to an independent system operator, or
under the terms of any new contracts with such successor company; provided
that such contracts should allow for novation to the independent system operator
in the same manner as specified in section 25 (d) ; or
(iii) the independent system operator, once it has been established under
subsection (7) of this section;
(f) the successor company identified in subsection 1(b) of this section shall, in
accordance with its licence, purchase ancillary services pursuant to the terms of the
contracts for ancillary services that it has entered into with successor generating
companies and with the trading licensee described in subsection 1 (a) of this section
and with independent power producers prior to the declaration under section 24
and it may also purchase ancillary services under the terms of contracts novated to'
it under section 25 (d) (i), until all such contracts are novated to an independent
system operator established pursuant to subsection (7) of this section ;
(g) distribution licensees shall purchase electrical power in accordance with
their obligations to purchase under subsection (1) (b) and (d) of this section and
pursuant to those obligations that have been novated to them under subsection (1)
(a) of this section, and may also purchase other supplies of power from generation
licensees and trading licensees, all in accordance with the terms of their respective
distribution licences; and
(h) eligible customers shall purchase power in accordance with their obligations
to purchase under subsections (1) (b) and (d) of this section and pursuant to those
obligations that have been novated to them under subsection (1) (a) of this section,
and may also purchase other supplies and powers from generation licensees or
from trading licensees,
(2) The Minister shall recommend to the President for approval of market rules,
to be developed by the system operator:
(a) for the operation of the national grid by the system operator; and
(b) for the establishment and governance of markets related to electricity and
ancillary services,
(3) In respect of markets for electricity and ancillary services, the market rules
may include provisions:
(a) governing the making and publication of market rules;
(b) settlement of payments among different participants ;
(c) authorizing and governing the making of orders by the system operator,
including orders:
(i) imposing financial penalties on market participants ;

-- 16 of 55 --

Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005 No. 6
(ii) authorising a person to participate in the markets; or
(iii) terminating, suspending or restricting a person's rights to participate in
the markets ; and
(d) concerning the administration and enforcement of the market rules, including
provisions for market rule amendments, dispute resolution, penalties and market
surveillance.
(4) A market rule may be general or particular in its application.
(5) The system operator shall publish the market rules in accordance with the
publication provisions within the market rules and shall make the market rules available
for public inspection during normal business hours at the offices of the system operator.
(6) Amendments to the market rules shall be developed by the system operator
in accordance with the amendment provisions in the market rules, provided that all
amendments shall be approved by the Commission before they come into force and
provided that the system operator shall, in accordance with the market rules, publish
any proposed amendment to the market rules at least 22 days before the proposed
amendment comes into force.
(7) At any time following the declaration of a substantially privatised market
under section 24, the successor company identified in section 25 (b) may transfer the
function of system operation to an independent system operator on such terms and
conditions as the Commission may direct and on such transfer, the independent system
operator shall be subject to the same powers and duties as have been imposed on the
transferring successor company under this Act in relation to system operation.
27. The Minister may issue a directive to the Commission specifying the class
or classes of end-use customers that, from time to time, shall constitute eligible
customers under this Act.
28. If the Minister determines, following consultation with the President, that a
directive given under section 27 will result in decreasing electricity prices to such an
extent that a trading licensee or a distribution licensee would have inadequate revenue
to enable payment for its committed expenditures or is unable to earn permitted rates
of return on its assets, despite its efficient management, the Minister may issue further
directives to the Commission on the collection of a competition transition charges
from consumers and eligible customers, the distribution of the funds collected to the
trading licensee described in section 25 (a) and to distribution licensees, and the
duration of the competition transition charge.
29. The Commission shall establish the amount of the competition transition
charge and the arrangements for the collection and distribution of the competition
transition charge, all in accordance with the Minister's directive or directives issued
under section 28.
Ministerial
directives
respecting
eligible
customers.
Ministerial
directives
respecting
competition
transition
charges.
Commission's
determinations
respecting
competition
transition
charges

-- 17 of 55 --

.
2005 No. 6 Electric Power Sector Reform Act
30. Prior to the making of the determinations set out in section 29, the Commission
shall hold a public hearing to obtain the views of any interested parties.
PART III-ESTABLISHMENT, FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF THE
NIGERIAN ELECTRICITY REGULATORY COMMISSION
31.-(1) There is established a commission to be known as the Nigerian
Electricity Regulatory Commission, which shall be a body corporate with perpetual
succession which can sue or be sued, in its corporate name and subject to this Act,
perform all acts that bodies corporate may by law perform.
(2) The headquarters of the Commission shall be at Abuja.
32.-(1) Subject to this Act, the Commission shall have the following principal
objects :
(a) to create, promote, and preserve efficient industry and market structures,
and to 'ensure the optimal utilisation of resources for the provision of electricity
services;
(b) to maximise access to electricity services, by promoting and facilitating
consumer connections to distribution systems in both rural and urban areas; .
(c) to ensure that an adequate supply of electricity is available to consumers;
(d) to ensure that the prices charged by licensees are fair to consumers and are
sufficient to allow the licensees to finance their activities and to allow for reasonable
earnings for efficient operation;
(e) to ensure the safety, security, reliability, and quality of service in the production
and delivery of electricity to consumers;
(f) to ensure that regulation is fair and balanced for licensees, consumers,
investors, and other stakeholders ; and
(g) to present quarterly reports to the· President and National Assembly on its
activities.
(2) For the furtherance of the objects referred to in subsection (1) of this section,
the Commission shall perform the following functions:
(a) promote competition and private sector participation, when and where
feasible;
(b) establish or, as the case may be, approve appropriate operating codes and
safety, security, reliability, and quality standards;
(c) establish appropriate consumer rights and obligations regarding the provision
and use of electricity services;
(d) license and regulate persons engaged in the generation, transmission, system
operation, distribution, and trading of electricity ;
Public hearing
respecting
competition
transition
charges.
Establishment of
the Commission.
Objects and
functions of
the Commission.

-- 18 of 55 --

Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005 No.6
(e) approve amendments to the market rules;
(f) monitor the operation of the electricity market; and
(g) undertake such other activities which are necessary or convenient for the
better carrying out of or giving effect to the objects of the Commission.
(3) In the discharge of its functions, the Commission shall consult, from time to
time, and to the extent the Commission considers appropriate, such persons or groups
of persons who mayor are likely to be affected by the decisions or orders of the
Commission including, but not limited to licensees, consumers, potential investors,
and other interested parties.
33.-(1) The Minister may issue general policy directions to the Commission
on matters concerning electricity, including directions on overall system planning
and co-ordination, which the Commission shall take into consideration in discharging
its functions under section 32 (2), provided that such directions are not in conflict with
this Act or the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
34.-(1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3) of this section, the Commission
shall consist of seven full time Commissioners appointed by the President subject to
confirmation by the Senate.
(2) In selecting potential nominees, the President shall ensure that individuals
are chosen, from both the public and private sectors, for their experience or professional
qualifications in the following fields or areas of competence:
(a) generation, transmission, system operation, distribution or marketing of
electricity; and
(b) law, accountancy, economics, finance or administration.
(3) The seven Commissioners shall be appointed to reflect one Commissioner
per geo-political zone and a chairman from any zone.
35.-(1) Subject to this Part, a Commissioner shall hold office for a period of
five years, provided that, to ensure continuity in the Commission, the period of
appointment of the first seven Commissioners shall be as follows :
(a) the Chairman shall be appointed for five years;
(b) the Vice Chairman and other Commissioners shall be appointed for four
years.
(2) A Commissioner shall not continue in office after the expiry of his term.
(3) Subject to section 36, a Commissioner shall hold office on such terms and
conditions as the President may fix in relation to Commissioners generally.
(4) A Commissioner whose term of office has expired is eligible for reappointment
for another term and no more.
General
policy directions.
Appointment
of
Commissioners.
Terms of office
and conditions of
service of
commissioners.

-- 19 of 55 --

2005 No. 6 Electric Power Sector Reform Act
(5) All appointments or re-appointments of Commissioners shall be made before
expiry of their term of office in accordance with section 34 of this Act.
36.- (1) A person shall not be appointed as a Commissioner who :
(a) is neither a citizen of Nigeria nor permanently rest dent in Nigeria ; or
(b) has a financial interest in any business connected, either directly or indirectly,
with generation, transmission, system operation; distribution or trading of electricity
in Nigeria, or is engaged in any activity (whether for remuneration or otherwise)
connected with any such service or system, or is a relative of a person who has such
an interest or is engaged in such an activity, unless the President is satisfied that the
interest or activity is in effect passive and will not interfere with the person's impartial
discharge of his duties as a Commissioner, or unless the financial interest is
terminated prior to the appointment taking effect, or
(c) has; in terms of law in force in any country :
(i) been adjudged or otherwise declared insolvent or bankrupt and has not
been rehabilitated or discharged, or
(ii) made an assignment to, or arrangement or composition with, his creditors
which has not been rescinded or set aside, or
(d) has, in terms of a law in force in any country :
(i) been adjudged, by a court of competent jurisdiction, to be of unsound
mind,
(ii) been banned 'from practicing his profession, or
(iii) been convicted of an offence and sentenced to a term of imprisonment
imposed with or without the option of a fine, whether or not any portion has
been suspended, and has not received a free pardon.
(2) A person who-holds the office of Commissioner, and for a period of two years
after he ceases to be a Commissioner for any reason whatsoever, shall not acquire,
hold or maintain, directly or indirectly, any interest, office, employment or consultancy
arrangements, either for remuneration or otherwise, connected with the generation,
transmission, system operation, distribution or trading of electricity in Nigeria or any
activity connected with any such service or system and if such person acquires any
such interest involuntarily or by way of succession or testamentary disposition, he
shall divest himself from such interest within a period of three months of such interest
being acquired.
37. A Commissioner shall vacate his office and his office shall become vacant:
(a) three months after the date upon which he gives notice in writing to the
President of his intention to resign.
(b) on the date he is convicted:
Conditions
for
appointment
as
Commissioner
Vacation of
office by
Commissioner

-- 20 of 55 --

Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005 No. 6
(i) in Nigeria, in respect of an offence; or
(ii) outside Nigeria, in respect of an offence involving financial impropriety or
any conduct which, if committed in Nigeria, would constitute an offence; or
(c) if he becomes disqualified under sections 36 (1) (a), (b), (c) or (d), to hold
office as a Commissioner; or
(d) if he is required under section 38 to vacate his office; or
(e) when he attains the age of 70 years, whichever is earlier.
38.-(1) The President shall require a Commissioner to vacate his office if the
Commissioner:
(a) has, subject to section 36 (2), been found to have conducted himself in a
manner that renders him unsuitable as a Commissioner, including a contravention
of section 43 or section 57 (2) ; or
(b) has failed to comply with any term or condition of his office fixed by the
President under section 35 (3) ; or
(c) is mentally or physically incapable of efficiently carrying out his functions as
a Commissioner; or
(d) the Commissioner is convicted of an offence in respect of which a sentence
of imprisonment without the option of a fine has been imposed, whether in Nigeria
or outside.
(2) A commissioner shall not be removed unless the request is supported by a
simple majority vote of the Senate.
39. Subject to section 40 (6), on the death of, or vacation of office by a
Commissioner, the President shall nominate a candidate to fill that vacancy, and submit
that nomination to the Senate, within one month, in accordance with section 34.
40.-(1) The President shall designate one of the Commissioners as Chairman
who shall be the Chief Executive and Accounting Officer of the Commission and
another Commissioner as Vice-Chairman.
(2) A Commissioner whose term of office has expired is eligible for
reappointment for another term and no more.
(3) The Vice-Chairman shall retain his position as. Vice-Chairman until his term of
office as a Commissioner is expired.
(4) The Vice-Chairman shall perform the Chairman's functions whenever the
Chairman is for any reason unable to perform them.
(5) The Chairman or Vice-Chairman may at any time resign his office as such by
one month's notice in writing to the President. .
Dismissal or
suspension of
Commissioners
Filling of
vacancies in
the-
Commission.
Chairman and
Vice-
Chairman of
the
Commission

-- 21 of 55 --

.
.
2005 No. 6 Electric Power Sector Reform Act
(6) Whenever the office of Chairman or Vice-Chairman falls vacant, or on the
death of the Chairman or Vice-Chairman, the President shall, within three weeks, select
another Commissioner to fill the vacancy under section 39;
41.-(1) The Commission shall meet for the dispatch of business as often as is
necessary or expedient and, subject to this section, may adjourn, close and otherwise
regulate its meetings and procedure as it thinks fit.
(2) The Chairman or, in his absence, the Vice-Chairman shall preside at all
meetings of the Commission.
(3) All decisions of the Commission shall be on the basis of majority of the
members present and voting.
(4) The quorum for the meeting of the Commission shall be four and subject to
section 43, at all meetings of the Commission each Commissioner present shall have
one vote on each question before the Commission and, in the event of an equality of
votes, the Chairman shall have a casting vote.
(5) For a meeting of the Commission to review any previous decision or order
taken by the Commission, the quorum shall be no less than the Commissioners present
when the' decision was taken or order was made.
(6) Without derogation from subsection (1) of this section, the Commission
may conduct its business by means of written resolutions signed by all the
Commissioners, provided that, if any Commissioner requires that a matter be placed
before all the Commissioners for discussion, this subsection shall not apply to such
matter.
42.-(1) Commissioners shall be paid from the funds of the Commission:
(a) such remuneration, if any, as the Commission may from time to time
determine, having regard to the recommendations of the National Salaries, Incomes
and Wages Commission; and
(b) such allowances, if any, as the Commission, may from time to time determine,
having regard to the recommendations of the National Salaries; Incomes and Wages
Commission, to meet any reasonable expenses incurred by such Commissioners in
connection with the business of the Commission.
(2) While making recommendations, the National Salaries, Incomes and Wages
Commission shall have due regard to the following principles:
(a) the specialised nature of work to be performed by the Commission;
(b) the need to ensure the financial self-sufficiency of the Commissioners;
(c) the salaries paid in the private sector to individuals with equivalent
responsibilities, expertise and skills; and
(d) the nature of the expenses incurred by the Commissioners, including national
and international travel expenses.
Meetings and
procedure of
the
Commission.
Remuneration
and expenses
of
Commissioners.

-- 22 of 55 --

Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005 No.6
43.- (1) If a Commissioner:
(a) acquires or holds a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in any matter that is
under consideration by the Commission;
(b) owns any property or has a right in property or a direct or indirect pecuniary
interest in a company or association of persons which results in the Commissioner's
private interests coming or appearing to come into conflict with his functions as a
Commissioner;
(c) knows or has reason to believe that a relative of the Commissioner:
(i) has acquired or holds a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in any matter
that is under consideration by the Commission, or .
(ii) owns any property or has a right in property or a direct or indirect pecuniary
interest in a company or association of persons which results in the
Commissioner's private interests coming or appearing to come into conflict
with his functions as a Commissioner; or
(d) if for any reason the private interests of a Commissioner come into conflict
with his functions as a Commissioner, the Commissioner shall forthwith disclose
the fact to the Commission.
(2) A Commissioner referred to in subsection (1) of this section shall take no part
in the consideration or discussion of, or vote on, any question before the Commission
which relates to any contract, right, immovable property or interest referred to in that
subsection .
(3) A Commissioner shall, prior to accepting his appointment to the Commission,
make a declaration of assets in accordance with paragraph 11 of the Fifth schedule to
the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 and shall terminate all other
engagements for gain, including appointment to any office in the Public Service.
(4) A Commissioner who contravenes subsection (1), (2) or (3) of this section
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand
Naira or imprisonment for a period not exceeding three months or to both such fine
and imprisonment.
44.-(1) No decision or act of the Commission or act done under the direction
of the Commission shall be invalid on the ground that:
(a) there existed a vacancy or vacancies among the Commissioners ; or
(b) there existed some defect in the constitution of the Commission at the time
the decision was taken or act was done or authorised.
(2) If a Commissioner referred to in section 43 takes part in the consideration of
a matter in which his private interests are in conflict with his functions as Commissioner,
the other Commissioners may subsequently ratify any such decision or action.
Commissioners
to disclose
certain
connections
and interests.
No invalidity
of decisions
and acts of the
Commission.

-- 23 of 55 --

2005 No. 6 Electric Power Sector Reform Act
45.-(1) The Commission shall be entitled to conduct its proceedings,
consultations and hearings at its headquarters or at any other place in Nigeria.
(2) The Commission shall make regulations for the discharge of its functions and
for the conduct of its proceedings, consultations and hearings, including procedures
for the participation of licensees, consumers, eligible customers and other persons.
46.-(1) The Chairman shall ensure that all Commission decisions and orders:
(a) contain the basis for the decision or order;
(b) are properly recorded in writing; and
(c) are accessible to the public at reasonable times and places.
(2) The Commission shall issue written reasons in respect of any decisions or
orders affecting the existing rights of any person, if the affected person requests such
written reasons.
(3) The Commission may issue written reasons in respect of any other decision
or order as the Commission deems necessary.
(4) Every recommendation, declaration, decision or order of the Commission,
if purporting to be signed by a person describing himself as the Chairman of the
Commission, or by a person describing himself as the Vice-Chairman acting in the
capacity of the Chairman, shall, unless the contrary is shown, be deemed to be made
by the Commission and to have been so signed and may be proved by the production
of a copy thereof purporting to' have been so signed.
(5) The Commission may make interim orders pending the final disposition of a
matter before it.
47.-(1) The Commission may hold a hearing of any matter, which under this
Act or any other enactment is required or permitted to conduct or on which it is required
or permitted to take any action and the Commission shall hold public hearing on
matters which the Commission determine to be of significant interest to the general
public.
(2). Where the Commission is required to, or otherwise decides to, hold a hearing,
all persons having an interest in such matter shall, as far as reasonably practicable, be .
notified of the questions at issue and given opportunities for making representations if
they so wish.
48. When any matter arises which entails the consideration of any professional
or technical question, the Commission may consult such persons as may be qualified
to advise thereon.
49.-(1) If any question of law arises from an order or decision of the
Commission, the Commission may, on its own initiative or at the request of any person
directly affected by such order, reserve that question for the decision of the High
Court.
Proceedings
of
the
Commission.
Decisions and
orders of the
Commission
Commission
to give notice
to interested
parties
Commission
to consult
experts on
technical
questions.
Questions of
law may be
referred to
the
High Court.

-- 24 of 55 --

Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005 No. 6
(2) Where a question has been reserved under subsection (1) of this section, the
Commission shall state the question in the form of a special case and file it with the
Registrar of the High Court.
50.-(1) Subject to this section, any person who is aggrieved by :
(a) a decision of the Commission not to issue a licence;
(b) any term or condition of a licence issued to him, or a refusal by the
Commission to specify a term or condition in a licence;
(c) a refusal by the Commission to renew a licence;
(d) any amendment of a licence or a refusal by the Commission to amend a
licence;
(e) the cancellation of a licence;
(f) the grant or refusal by the Commission to grant any approval or authority in
terms of this Act;
(g) the outcome of any arbitration or mediation by the Commission of a
dispute between licensees;
(h) a decision of the Commission with respect to prices or tariffs;
(i) any other decision of the Commission; may apply to the Commission for
review of the decision, order or refusal.
(2) The Commission may, reconsider, vary or rescind its decisions before
issuing a final decision, in accordance with such procedures as the Commission
may establish; provided that such review or reconsideration shall be completed
within sixty days of the date it is requested.
51.-(1) On or before such date as the Minister may specify before the beginning
of every financial year, the Commission shall prepare and submit to the Minister a
budget showing the expenditures which the Commission proposes to incur in respect
of that financial year in order to carry out the functions of the Commission.
(2) During any financial year, the Commission may prepare and submit to the
Minister a supplementary budget relating to expenditures which were inadequately
provided for in the annual budget due to unforeseen circumstances.
(3) A supplementary budget shall be deemed to form part of the annual budget
of the Commission for the financial year to which it relates.
(4) The Commission may vary a budget prepared under this section, provided
that no variation may be made which has the effect of increasing the total amount of
expenditure provided for in the budget.
52. The funds of the Commission shall consist of: Funds of the
Commission.
(a) fees, charges and other income accruing to the Commission from licensees
and other things done by it in terms of this Act, excluding any fines or penalties
recovered pursuant to this Act;
(b) funds allocated to the Commission by the National Assembly, pursuant to a
Rehearing and
Appeals.
Annual
programmes
and budgets
of the
Commission

-- 25 of 55 --

2005 No. 6 Electric Power Sector Reform Act
.
request by the Commission for additional funds required to meet its reasonable
expenditures; and
(c) such other moneys as may vest in or accrue to the Commission, whether in
the course of its operations or otherwise.
53. If, following an audit of the Commission's accounts under section 56, the
auditors determine that a portion of the funds received. pursuant to section 52 are
surplus to the budgeted requirements of the Commission, such surplus funds shall be
paid by the Commission to the Rural Electrification Fund established under Part IX of
this Act, subject to approval by the National Assembly.
54. The financial year of the Commission shall be the period of twelve months
ending on the 31st December in each year or such other period as the Minister may,
determine.
55.-(1) The Commission shall ensure that proper accounts and other records
relating to such accounts are kept in respect of all the Commission's activities, funds
and property, including such particular accounts and records as the Minister may require.
(2) The Commission shall, not later than three months, after the end of the financial
year, prepare and submit to the Auditor General of the Federation and National Assembly
a statement of accounts in respect of that financial 'year.
(3) The Commission shall present quarterly reports on all its activities to the
President and National Assembly.
56.-(1) The Commission shall appoint an auditor in accordance with the
guidelines for the appointment of auditors issued by the Auditor-General of the
Federation.
(2) The accounts kept by the Commission under section 55 (1) shall be examined
by the auditor.
(3) The auditor shall within six months after the end of each financial year,
make a report to the Commission and the Minister on the statement of accounts prepared
under section 55 (2) arid such report shall state whether or not, in the opinion of the
auditor, .the statement of accounts gives a true and fair view of the Commission's
affairs.
(4) The Minister may require the Commission to obtain from its auditor such
other reports, statements or explanations in connection with the Commission's
operations, funds and property as the Minister may consider necessary, and the
Commission shall forthwith comply with any such requirement
(5) Notwithstanding the provision of subsection (4) of this section, the Minister
shall authorise the Commission to publish its audited statement of accounts in two
national newspapers within one month following the receipt of the auditor's report
under subsection (3) of this section, and the Commission shall-thereafter publish the
statement of accounts in the manner that has been authorised.
57.-(1) The auditor shall be entitled at all reasonable times to require to be
produced to him all accounts and other records relating to such accounts which are
Surplus Funds
of the
Commission.
Financial year
of the
Commission.
Accounts of
the
Commission.
Audit of the
Commission 's
accounts
Powers of
auditors

-- 26 of 55 --

Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005 No.6
kept by the Commission or its agents and to require from any Commissioner or employee
or agent of the Commission such information and explanations as in the auditor's
opinion are necessary for the purposes of their audit.
(2) Any Commissioner or employee or agent of the Commission who fails without
just cause to comply with a requirement of an auditor in terms of subsection (1) of this
section commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding twenty
thousand Naira or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding three months or to both
such fine and imprisonment.
58. Any agreement, contract or instrument approved by the Commission may
be entered into or executed on behalf of the Commission by any persons generally or
specially authorised by the Commission for that purpose.
59.-(1) In addition to any report which the Commission is required by this Act
to submit to the Minister, the Commission:
(a) shall submit to the Minister such other reports as the Minister may require;
and
(b) may submit to the Minister such other reports as the Commission considers
advisable.
(2) The Minister shall publicly release any reports submitted pursuant to
subsection (1) of this section, within two months following the receipt of such a report.
60.-(1) The Commission shall employ such persons as it considers expedient
for the better exercise of the functions of the Commission.
(2) The terms and conditions of service, including remuneration, allowances
And pension benefits, of the staff of the Commission shall be as determined by the
Commission.
(3) Subject to subsection (5) of this. section, the Commission may assign to its
staff such functions of the Commission as the Commission deems fit.
(4) Any assignment of functions under subsection (3) of this section may be
made either generally or specially and subject to such reservations, restrictions and
exceptions as the Commission may determine, and may be revoked by the Commission
at any time.
(5) Anything authorised or required by or under· this Act to be done by the
Commission, other than the making of final orders, may be done by any member of
the Commission staff who has been authorised either generally or specifically by the
Commission to do so.
61. No liability shall attach to the Commission or to any employee of the
Commission or to a Commissioner for any loss or damage sustained by any person as
a result of the bona fide exercise or performance of any function which, by or in terms
of this Act, is conferred or imposed upon the Commission or the Commissioners.
Execution of
contracts and .
instruments by
the
Commission
Reports of
the
Commission
Staff of the
Commission.
Exemption
from liability
for the
Commission

-- 27 of 55 --

2005 No.6 Electric Power Sector Reform Act
PART IV - LICENCES AND TARIFFS
62.-(1) No person, except in accordance with a licence issued pursuant to this
Act or deemed to have been issued under section 98(2), shall construct, own or
operate an undertaking other than an undertaking specified in subsection (2) of this
section, or in any way engage in the business of:
(a) electricity generation, excluding captive generation;
(b) electricity transmission;
(c) system operation;
(d) electricity distribution; or
(e) trading in electricity.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, a person may construct, own
or operate an undertaking for generating electricity not exceeding 1 megawatt (MW)
in aggregate at a site or an undertaking for distribution for electricity with a capacity
not exceeding 100 kilowatts (KW) in aggregate at a site, or such other capacity as the
Commission may determine from time to time, without a licence.
(3) The Commission may issue an interim licence for any or all of the activities
specified in subsection (1) of this section to any person as specified under the Act for
a period not exceeding eighteen months, or such shorter period as may be specified in
this Act, if it determines that it is necessary in the public interest to do so.
(4) The Commission shall have the power to resolve disputes as to whether a
person is engaging, or is about to engage in a business for which a licence is required
under subsection (1) of this section.
(5) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) of this section commits an offence
and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand Naira or to
imprisonment for a period not exceeding two years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
(6) The Commission shall have the authority to order any person who contravenes
subsection (1) of this section to cease his operations, and to make such other orders,
including an order to another licensee to disconnect facilities, as may be necessary to
prevent the continuation or reoccurrence of the contravention.
(7) The Commission shall have the authority to penalise a licensee for violations
of his licence terms and conditions or to cancel such licence in accordance with the
provisions of this Act.
63.-(1) A licensee shall comply with the provisions of his licence, regulations,
codes, and other requirements issued by the Commission from time to time.
(2) Unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, each licensee shall duly
implement or follow, as the case may be, Commission orders and written notices,
notwithstanding that the licensee has or may intend to take legal action challenging
any such order or notice.
Licensing
requirement:
fines and
penalties.
General duties
of licensees.

-- 28 of 55 --

Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005 No.6
64.-(1) Subject to such terms and conditions as the Commission may fix in the
licence, a generation licence shall, as the circumstances may require, authorise the
licensee to construct, own, operate and maintain a generation station for purposes of
generation and supply of electricity in accordance with this Act.
(2) Subject to this Act, the holder of a generation licence may sell power or
ancillary services to any of the classes of persons specified in the licence.
(3) The Commission may issue generation licences to :
(a) one or more of the successor companies formed under section 8, herein
described as a "successor generation company" ; or
(b) one or more entities that are not successor companies formed under section
8, herein described as an "independent power producer."
65.-(1) Subject to such terms and conditions as the Commission may fix in the
licence, a transmission licence shall authorise the licensee to carry on grid construction,
operation, and maintenance of transmission system within Nigeria, or that connect
Nigeria with a neighbouring jurisdiction.
(2) The transmission licensee that is a successor company formed under section
8 may also have an obligation to carry out system operation, including the procurement
of ancillary services, pursuant to the terms of a system operation licence issued by the
Commission to such licensee.
66.-(1) Subject to such terms and conditions as the Commission may fix in
the licence, a system operation licence shall authorise the licensee to carry on system
operation, including, but not limited to, the following activities as may be specified in
the licence:
(a) generation scheduling, commitment and dispatch;
(b) transmission scheduling and generation outage co-ordination;
(c) transmission congestion management;
(d) international transmission co-ordination;
(e) procurement and scheduling of ancillary services and system planning
for long term capacity;
(f) administration of the wholesale electricity market, including the activity of
administration of settlement payments, in accordance with the market rules; and
(g) such other activities as may be required for reliable and efficient system
operation.
(2) All contracts for procuring ancillary services shall be awarded according 'to
an open transparent and competitive manner, pursuant to a procedure established by
the Commission, unless the circumstances require otherwise and the Commission
allows or requires an alternative method.
.
Generation
licences
Transmission
licences.
System
operation
licence.

-- 29 of 55 --

2005 No.6 Electric Power Sector Reform Act
67.-(1) Subject to such terms and conditions as the Commission may fix in
the licence, a distribution licence shall authorise the licensee to construct, operate
and maintain a distribution system and facilities, including, but not limited to, the
following activities as may be specified in the licence:
(a) the connection of customers for the purpose of receiving a supply of
electricity;
(b) the/installation, maintenance and reading of meters, billing and collection;
and
(c) such other distribution service as may be prescribed for the purposes of this
section.
(2) A distribution licensee may also have the obligation to provide electricity to
its distribution customers, pursuant to the terms of a trading licence issued by the
Commission to the distribution licensee.
(3) A distribution licensee that has a trading licence issued under subsection (2)
of this section may purchase power for resale from another trading licensee and may,
with the prior approval of the Commission, purchase power from other sources except
for the rights and obligations of the trading licence described in section 25(a) novated
to a distribution licensee under section 26, all contracts for bulk purchase of power by
a distribution licensee shall be awarded according to an open, transparent, and
competitive manner, pursuant to a procedure established by the Commission, unless
the circumstances require otherwise and the Commission allows or requires an
alternative method.
68.-(1) A trading licensee shall be permitted to engage in the purchasing, selling,
and trading of electricity and the Commission shall have the authority to determine
the terms and conditions of trading licences as may be appropriate in the circumstances,
and having due regard ·to the nature of the activities in which the licensee intends to
engage.
(2) The Commission may also issue a temporary bulk purchase and resale licence,
giving the licensee, the ability to purchase electrical power and ancillary services
from independent power producers and successor generation companies for the purpose
of re-sales to one or more other licensees, or to an eligible customer.
(3) All contracts for purchases of electrical power and ancillary services by the
holder of such temporary licence shall be awarded according to an open, transparent,
and competitive manner, pursuant to a procedure established by the Commission,
unless the circumstances require otherwise and the Commission allows or requires an
alternative method.
69.-(1) A licensee shall not, except as provided in section 26(7), assign or cede
his licence or transfer his undertaking, or any part thereof, by way of sale, mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise without the prior consent of the Commission provided
that, should the Commission determine that in any instance the circumstances so require,
it may establish licence terms and conditions providing its specific or general consent
for any or all of the foregoing.
Distributi
on
licences.
Trading
licences.
Restrictions
on licences.

-- 30 of 55 --

Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005 No.6
(2) No licensee shall, without the prior written consent of the Commission, acquire
by purchase or otherwise, or affiliate with, the licence or. undertaking of any other
licensee or person that is in the business of electricity generation, transmission, system
operation, distribution, or trading, other than as provided for in sections 65(2),67(2)
and 68, provided that the Commission may, as part of its consent, impose conditions
such as, but not limited to, adherence to codes of conduct approved by the Commission.
70.-(1) An application for a licence shall be made to the Commission in the
form and manner prescribed and be accompanied by the prescribed fee and such
information or documents as may be prescribed or as the Commission may require.
(2) Within thirty days after applying for a licence under subsection (1) of this
section, the applicant shall, at his own expense, cause a notice of the application to be
published in a newspaper circulating in the area in which he intends to operate as a
licensee, and in a separate, national circulation, newspaper in accordance with such
directions as may be given by the Commission, stating the period, prescribed by the
Commission, within which objections or representation in connection with the
application may be made to the Commission, and the Commission shall not issue any
licence until all objections or representations received by the Commission have been
considered and determined.
(3) An applicant for a licence who owns, or a licensee who acquires, more than
ten per cent or such other percentage as the Commission may specify, of the shares in
a body corporate which has applied for or holds another licence issued by the
Commission shall disclose such interest to the Commission.
(4) Subject to subsection (5) of this section, if on consideration of an application
that satisfies the requirements of subsection (1) of this section, the Commission is
also satisfied that :
(a) the applicant is likely to comply with such provisions of this Act, including,
without limitation, all codes of conduct, standards, regulations and license terms
and conditions, as apply to the service or system it intends to provide or operate;
and
(b) the grant of the licence is in the public interest; the Commission shall issue
the appropriate licence, as the case may be, to the applicant.
(5) If on consideration of an application that satisfies the requirements of
subsection (1) of this section, the Commission is not satisfied as to the additional
matters referred to in subsection (4), it shall refuse to issue a licence to the applicant,
but before refusing to issue the licence on the ground that it is not satisfied as to the
matters referred to in subsection (4) of this section, the Commission shall notify the
applicant in writing that it proposes to refuse the application and of its reasons for
doing so, and shall afford the applicant an adequate opportunity to make representations
in the matter.
(6) The period between the Commission’s receipt of an application under
subsection (1) of this section and all documents and information submitted in support
An application
for a licence.

-- 31 of 55 --

2005 No.6 Electric Power Sector Reform Act
of it, and the date on which it notifies the applicant of the adequacy of the documents
and information, shall not exceed one month.
(7) The period between the Commission's receipt of an application that satisfies
the requirements of subsection (1) of this section, and the date on which the Commission
notifies the applicant of its decision or proposed decision in accordance with subsection
(4) or subsection (5), as the case may be, shall not exceed six months.
(8) Notwithstanding subsections (1) to (7) of this section, the Commission may
establish simplified procedures for undertakings and businesses that are limited in size
and scope so as to expedite the application and licensing process.
71.-(1) A licence shall be issued subject to such terms and conditions as may
be prescribed, or as the Commission may reasonably determine, including terms and
conditions prescribing the use of a tariff methodology approved by the Commission
under section 76.
(2) Without derogation from subsection (1) of this section, the terms and
conditions of a licence may require the licensee to :
(a) enter into agreements on specified terms with other persons for the provision
of or use of electric lines and associated equipment operated by the licensee;
(b) purchase power and other resources in an economical and transparent
manner;
(c) refer disputes for arbitration, mediation, or determination by the Commission.
(3) In the case of a licence issued to an applicant referred to in section 70 (3), the
licence may be issued subject to the condition that the licensee shall divest itself
within a specified time of any holding of shares in another licensee or such other
conditions, including adherence to codes of conduct, that the Commission determines
to be in the public interest.
(4) In issuing or renewing a distribution licence, the Commission may impose a
condition requiring the licensee to make such reasonable provision as may be specified
by the Commission in the licence for the facilitation of rural electrification in the
proximity of the service, having due regard to the tariff methodology established by
the Commission under section 76.
(5) A licence may require the licensee to provide information to the Commission
on a periodic basis, in such form and detail as the Commission may determine.
(6) Unless expressly indicated in the licence, the grant of a licence shall not
hinder or restrict the grant of a licence to another person for a like purpose and, in the
absence of such an express indication, the licensee, shall not claim any exclusivity,
provided that the Commission may allow a licensed activity to be exclusive for all or
part of the period of the licence, for a specific purpose; for a geographical area, or for
some combination of the foregoing.
(7) A licence may contain terms and conditions for the licence to cease to have
effect or to be modified or amended by the Commission in such circumstances as may
be specified in the licence or as may be determined by the Commission.
Terms and
conditions of
licences.

-- 32 of 55 --

Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005 No.6
(8) As a condition of its licence, every licensee shall, unless expressly exempted
by its licence, prepare and submit to the Commission each year such accounting
information as the Commission may require.
(9) The Commission shall include in each licence such details as it determines or
are required regarding the rights and obligations of the licensee, and procedures to be
followed, at the end of its licence term.
(10) A licence shall be valid for a period of up to, but not exceeding ten years,
provided that the Commission may extend the period of a licence taking into account
the nature of the undertaking or business, for an additional period not exceeding five
years at a time it determines that it is in the public interest to do so.
(11) Every licence shall be deemed to contain a provision that the licensee comply
with the market rules to the extent applicable to the licensee.
72.-(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the holder of a licence may apply
for a renewal of the licence before it expires.
(2) An application for the renewal of a licence shall be made to the Commission
in the form and manner and within the period prescribed by the Commission, and it
shall be accompanied by the prescribed fee, if any.
(3) Section 71 applies, mutatis mutandis, to the renewal of licences.
73.-(1) Subject to this section, the Commission may, at any time, amend a
licence or any term or condition of a licence:
(a) if the licensee requests the amendment; or
(b) if the amendment is pursuant to a condition of the licence imposed under
section 71 (7) ; or
(c) upon receiving a complaint from any consumer, eligible customer, consumer
association, association of eligible customers, or other licensee; or
(d) on its own initiative.
(2) Where a licensee makes an application for the amendment of a licence, the
licensee shall publish a notice of the proposed amendments to the licence in accordance
with such directions as maybe given by the Commission, stating the period, prescribed
by the Commission, within which objections or representations in connection with
the amendments may be made to the Commission, and the Commission shall not
amend any licence until all objections or representations received by the Commission
have been considered and determined.
(3) In the case of an application proposing amendments to a licence of a licensee
who provides services. to an area covering a building or place occupied by the Federal
Ministry of Defence for defence purposes, the Commission shall obtain the consent
of the Federal Ministry of Defence before making the amendment to the licence.
(4) Before making amendments in a licence otherwise than on the application of
the licensee, the Commission shall publish the proposed amendments, stating the
Renewal of
licences
Amendment
of licences..

-- 33 of 55 --

2005 No.6 Electric Power Sector Reform Act
period within which objections or representations may be made to the Commission,
and the Commission shall not amend any such licence until all such objections or
representations received by the Commission have been considered and determined.
74.-(1) Upon:
(a) receiving a complaint from any consumer, eligible customer, consumer
association, association of eligible customers or other licensee, or
(b) on its own initiative, the Commission may inquire into the conduct or
functioning of any licensee in carrying out the licensee's obligations under this Act,
rules or regulations, codes of conduct, or the terms and conditions of the licence.
(2) Subject to this section, and after an inquiry, including an opportunity for the
licensee to show cause as to why the licence should not be cancelled, the Commission
may cancel any licence if, in its opinion:
(a) the licence was issued through fraud or the misrepresentation or nondisclosure
of a material fact by the licensee; or
(b) the licensee has wilfully or unreasonably contravened any provision of this
Act that is applicable to the licensee; or
(c) the licensee has failed to comply with any term or condition of the licence,
the breach of which is expressly declared by such licence to render it liable to
cancellation; or
(d) the financial position of the licensee is such that he is unable to fully and
efficiently discharge the duties and obligations imposed by the licence.
(3) Before cancelling a licence under subsection (2) of this section, the
Commission shall notify the licensee in writing of its intention to cancel the licence
concerned and the reasons for doing so, and shall allow the licensee an opportunity to
demonstrate, within 60 days following the delivery of such a notification, that
circumstances have changed such that cancellation may no longer be warranted.
(4) If, at the expiry of the inquiry and any further opportunity to be heard, under
subsections (2) and (3) of this section, the Commission is satisfied for any reason
specified in subsection (2) of this section that it is in the public interest that the licence
concerned should be cancelled, the Commission may, by notice in writing to the
licensee, cancel the licence or take such other action as it considers appropriate.
(5) Notwithstanding subsections (2) to (4) of this section, instead of cancelling
a licence, the Commission may allow the licence to remain in force, subject to such
further terms and conditions as it may deem necessary to impose, and such terms and
conditions shall form part of the licence.
(6) In the event that the Commission decides to cancel a licence, it shall serve
on the licensee a notice of cancellation fixing the date on which the cancellation shall
take effect and the Commission may make orders in regard to the undertaking of the
licensee, including an order for the sale of the undertaking of the licensee, as are, in
the opinion of the Commission, necessary for maintaining continuity in the provision
of electricity service.
Cancellation
of licences.

-- 34 of 55 --

Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005 No. 6
75.-(1) Without derogation from its powers under section 74, where the
Commission is satisfied that a licensee is contravening, has contravened or is likely to
contravene any of the conditions of the licence, the Commission may serve upon the
licensee an order:
(a) requiring the licensee to do, or not to do, such things as are specified in the
order for the purpose of rectifying or avoiding any contravention or threatened
contravention of any condition of the licence; and
(b) stipulating the period within which any requirement referred to in subsection
(1) (a) of this section shall be commenced and completed; and notice of the order
shall be published by the Commission in such manner as it considers appropriate to
draw the attention of other persons affected or likely to be affected by the
contravention or threatened contravention of the licence.
(2) Before serving an order in terms of subsection (1) of this section, the
Commission shall serve a notice upon the licensee concerned:
(a) specifying the grounds upon which the order is to be issued and what the
Commission considers reasonably necessary for the purpose of rectifying or avoiding
any contravention or threatened contravention of any condition of the licence;
(b) stipulating the maximum period that the Commission considers reasonable
for the implementation of any requirement it proposes to order; and
(c) allowing the licensee, to make representations to the Commission within
such period from the date of service of the notice as it shall specify.
(3) After considering any representations 'made under subsection (2)(c) of this
section, the Commission may serve, or refrain from or defer serving, an order in
terms of subsection (1), or serve an order on different terms.
(4) An order served under subsection (1) of this section may specify a penalty
for each day that the licensee subjected to the order is in default of compliance with
the order, not to exceed ten thousand Naira for each such day.
76.-(1)The following activities are subject to tariff regulation :
(a) generation and trading, in respect of which licences are required pursuant to
this Act, and where the Commission considers regulation of prices necessary to
prevent abuses of market power; and
(b) transmission, distribution and system operation, in respect of which licences
are required under this Act.
(2) Prices for the activities referred to in subsection (1) of this section shall be
regulated according to one or more methodologies adopted by the Commission for
regulating electricity prices and such tariff methodologies shall:
(a) allow a licensee that operates efficiently to recover the full costs of its business
activities, including a reasonable return on the capital invested in the business;
Enforcement of
licences.
Tariffs.

-- 35 of 55 --

2005 No. 6 Electric Power Sector Reform Act
(b) provide incentives for the continued improvement of the technical and
economic efficiency with which the services are provided;
(c) provide incentives for the continued improvement of quality of services;
(d) give to consumers economically efficient signals regarding the costs that
their consumption imposes on the licensee's business;
(e) avoid undue discrimination between consumers and consumer categories;
and
(f) phase out or substantially reduce cross subsidies.
(3) The Commission shall take into account any subsidy provided by the Power
Consumer Assistance Fund under this Act or from any other source, whether direct or
by way of favourable financing terms, or in any other manner, in establishing its tariff
methodologies.
(4) Notwithstanding subsection (2) of this section, the Commission shall have
the authority to establish tariff methodologies that reflect the terms and conditions of
a contract between licensees or between a licensee and one or more eligible customers.
(5) Notwithstanding subsection (2) (e) of this section, in establishing tariff
methodologies the Commission may differentiate among consumers on the basis of
differences in total electricity consumption, the time periods 'on which electricity is
consumed, load factors, power factors, voltage levels, location within the country and
other such criteria as may affect the cost of providing a service and may allow a lifeline
tariff for some consumers.
(6) Prior to approving a tariff methodology, the Commission shall give notice in
the Official Gazette, and in one or more newspapers with wide circulation, of the proposed
establishment of a tariff methodology, indicating the period within which objections or
representations in connection with the same may be made to the Commission.
(7) In preparing a tariff methodology, the Commission shall:
(a) consider any representations made by licence applicants, other licensees,
consumers, eligible customers, consumer associations, associations of eligible
customers and such other persons as it considers necessary or desirable;
(b) obtain evidence, information or advice from' any person who, in the
Commission's opinion, possesses expert knowledge which is relevant in the
preparation of the methodology.
(8) The Commission shall fix the date on which the tariff methodology shall
come into operation and it shall cause notice to be given in the official gazette of that
date.
(9) If it appears to the Commission that a tariff methodology should be changed,
the Commission shall give notice in the Official Gazette, and in one or more newspapers
with wide circulation, of the proposal to change the methodology, indicating the period
within which representations in connection with the proposal may be made.

-- 36 of 55 --

Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005 No.6
(l0) After taking into account any objections of representations received in
response to a notice issued under subsection (9) of this section, the Commission may
confirm the proposed changes to the tariff methodology and the provisions of
subsection (8) shall apply mutatis mutandis.
(11) Every person upon whom any function has been conferred or imposed in
connection with setting tariffs, shall be bound by a tariff methodology that has come
into operation under subsection (8) or subsection (10) of this section.
(12) Every licensee shall keep at his office a current copy of the tariff
methodology applicable to that licensee and shall make a copy available for-inspection
on request by any person free of any charge during the licensee's normal working
hours.
(13) Any fines or penalties levied against a licensee in terms of this Act or any
other law or regulation shall not be rechargeable to the licensee's customers.
(14) Any person or licensee who contravenes or condones the contravention of
the provision of subsection (13) of this section shall be liable to a fine two times the
charge to the licensee's customers or to imprisonment of not more than one year or to
both such fine and imprisonment.
PART V - ACQUISITION OF LAND AND ACCESS RIGHTS
77.--(1) Where a generation licensee, transmission licensee or a distribution
licensee, or a proposed licensee for generation, transmission or distribution services,
requires any land in connection with its obligations under its . licence or a proposed
licence, such licensee may apply to the Commission, in such form as the Commission
may prescribe, for a declaration that the land is required for purposes of generation,
transmission or distribution of electricity.
(2) The Commission may call for such further information as the Commission
may deem necessary in connection with an application submitted under subsection
(1) of this section and in considering the-application made under subsection (1) of this
section, the Commission may invite and consider submissions from the Commissioner
of Lands of the State where the concerned land is situated.
(3) After holding such enquiry as the Commission may consider necessary, the
Commission may, subject to such exceptions as it may have included in the relevant
licence and subject to such further conditions as it may specify, declare that the land
identified by the licensee, with such modifications to its boundaries as the Commission
may specify, is required for the purposes of generation, transmission or distribution
of electricity.
(4) No such declaration shall be given without granting to the person ha\ling an
interest in the land under consideration an adequate opportunity to make representations
against such declaration.
(5) The Commission shall not act under subsection (3) of this section unless it
is satisfied, upon representations made by the licensee or proposed licensee concerned,
that the electricity generation, transmission or distribution concerned is not otherwise
practicable.
Special
provisions
relating to
generation,
transmission
and
distribution
companies.

-- 37 of 55 --

2005 No.6 Electric Power Sector Reform Act
(6) Following a declaration by the Commission under subsection (3) of this
section, the President, shall issue a notice in the Gazette to the effect that the land is
required by the Government of the Federation for the public purposes of the Federation.
(7) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (3) of this section, the
exceptions and conditions mentioned therein shall include such exceptions and
conditions as appear to the Commission to be necessary or expedient for the purpose
of ensuring :
(a) that the physical environment is protected;
(b) that there is no greater damage to streets or interference with traffic than is
reasonably necessary; and
(c) that funds are available for meeting any liabilities which may arise from the
exercise of any rights or powers under subsection (1) of this section.
(8) Any person who is aggrieved by any decision of the Commission made under
subsection (3) of this section may appeal against such decision in accordance with this
Act.
(9) Where the President issues a notice under subsection (6), the Governor shall,
in accordance with the provisions of section 28 (4) of the Land Use Act, revoke the
existing right of occupancy respecting the land and grant a certificate of occupancy in
favour of the concerned licensee in respect of the land identified by the Commission
in such notice and the grant of such certificate, the right of occupancy over the land
shall vest in such licensee to the exclusion of the previous holder of the right of
occupancy respecting the land, who shall be entitled to claim compensation in
accordance with the provisions of the Land Use Act.
(10) A generation licensee, transmission licensee and distribution licensee shall
be entitled to access rights over lands, buildings and streets for discharging its
obligations under its licence to the extent and in the manner prescribed in regulations
issued by the Commission.
(11) If a licensee, who has been given a right of occupancy over land under
subsection (8) of this section, ceases to require the land for the purposes of the licensed
activity, then the licensee shall offer the land to the previous holder of the right of
occupancy, for repurchase at an amount equivalent to the amount of compensation
paid to the previous holder under subsection (9' and the provisions of the Land Use
Act and if the previous holder declines the offer to repurchase, the licensee may offer
the right of occupancy to any other person on such terms and conditions as the
Commission may direct.
78.-(1) In this section:
"authority" includes a local authority and a statutory body; "conduit" includes
a tunnel or subway;
"relevant conduit" means:
Cap. 202 LFN
1990
Use of certain
conduits for
electricity
purpose

-- 38 of 55 --

Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005 No.6
(a) a water main or any other conduit maintained by a water authority for the
purpose of conveying water from one place to another; or
(b) a public sewer.
(2) The functions of an authority with control of a relevant conduit shall
include the power to :
(a) Carry out, or to authorise any person to carry out, any works in relation to
that conduit or in connection with the installation, maintenance, adjustment,
repair or alteration. of apparatus for purposes connected with the transmission or
distribution of electricity
(b) keep the electricity apparatus installed in that conduit or to authorise any
other person to keep that apparatus so installed.;
(c) authorise any person to enter that conduit to inspect electricity apparatus
kept installed there ;
(d) enter into agreements on such terms, including terms as to the payments to
be made to the authority, as it deems fit, in connection with the doing of anything
authorised by or under this section; and
(e) carry on an associated business consisting of the making and carrying out of
such agreements.
(3) Where any enactment expressly or impliedly imposes any limitation on the
use to which a relevant conduit may be put, that limitation shall not have effect so as
to prohibit the doing of anything authorised by or under this section.
(4) Where the doing by an authority with control of a public sewer of anything
authorised by this section would, apart from this subsection, constitute a contravention
of any obligation imposed (whether by virtue of any conveyance or agreement or
otherwise) on a licensee, the doing of that thing shall not constitute such a contravention
to the extent that it consists in, or in authorising, the carrying out of works or inspections,
or keeping of apparatus, wholly inside a public sewer.
(5) Subject to subsections (3) and (4) of this section, subsection (2) of this
section is without prejudice to the rights of any person with an interest in land on,
under or over which a relevant conduit is situated.
79.-(1) Any person who desires to construct or extend any railway, road or
any works for telecommunications shall:
(a) give one month's notice in writing to the Commission of his intention to
commence such construction or extension; and
(b) furnish the Commission with a plan of the proposed railway, road or
telecommunication works, together with the particulars showing the manner and
position in which the railway, road or telecommunication works are intended to be
constructed or extended and carried on and such further information as the
Commission may require ; PROVIDED that this subsection shall not apply to the
construction or extension of works or telecommunication works as may be prescribed
by the Commission.
Notice of
construction
of railways,
roads and
telecommuni-
cation works
and control
of other
works.

-- 39 of 55 --

2005 No.6 Electric Power Sector Reform Act
(2) If it appears to the Commission that:
(a) the operation of or the equipment to be used in connection with railway, load
or telecommunication works referred to in subsection (1) of this section is likely to
affect injuriously or interfere with the work or maintenance of electricity lines or the
carrying on by a licensee of a system; or
(b) any electricity line is being affected injuriously or interfered with by the
construction or operation of or the equipment used in connection with :
(i) a railway, road or telecommunication work referred to in subsection (1),
or
(ii) any railway, road or telecommunication work or other operation
whatsoever; the Commission shall notify in writing the person constructing or
operating the railway or works of the action which that person is required to take
in order to remedy or prevent the injury or interference.
(3) A person referred to in subsection (3) of this section who, after' receipt of a
notice in terms of that subsection, proceeds with the construction or operation of the
equipment concerned or continues to operate the railway, road or telecommunication
works without complying with the terms of that notice shall be Liable to any licensee
for all loss and damage caused to the licensee by the. person's failure to comply with
the terms of that notice.
PART VI - CONSUMER PROTECTION AND LICENSEE PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
80.-(1) The Commission shall develop, in consultation with the licensees, the
following materials:
(a) customer service standards;
(b) customer complaint handling standards and procedures;
(c) codes of practice for the provision of assistance to special needs customers,
such as the blind or disabled, the elderly or severely ill ;
(d) procedures for dealing with, and assisting where necessary, customers who
have difficulty in paying bills;
(e) procedures for applying for electricity service;
(f) procedures for disconnecting non-paying customers or for those in breach of
other terms and conditions of an applicable tariff or contract; and
(g) the information to be provided to consumers and the manner of its
dissemination;
(2) Standards and procedures developed by the Commission shall be adhered to
by the applicable licensees and shall be published by the applicable licensees in such
manner and by such means as the Commission may direct.
(3) The Commission shall establish standards for compensation to consumers
who do not enjoy regular power supply.
Consumer
protection
standards.

-- 40 of 55 --

Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005 No.6
,
81. - (1) The Commission shall develop, in consultation with licensees and other
interested parties, the following performance standards and codes:
(a) standards of overall performance in connection with the provision of electricity
supply services and in connection with the promotion of the efficient use of electricity
by consumers;
(b) such technical codes and manuals as maybe required for the safe, reliable,
and efficient operation of the system; and
(c) such other standards, codes, manuals as the Commission may require.
(2) Standards, codes and manuals approved by the Commission pursuant to
subsection (1) of this section shall be binding on the applicable licensees and shall be
published by the applicable licensees in such manner as the Commission may direct.
(3) Different standards may be determined for different licensees under this
section.
PART VII-COMPETITION AND MARKET POWER
82.-(1) The Commission shall have, a continuing responsibility to monitor the
Nigerian electricity supply industry in regard to its potential for additional competition
and to report on this subject, each year to the Minister and until such time as the
Minister has made a declaration under section 24 (3), the content of these reports shall
be as prescribed by section 24 (2), thereafter, the content of these reports shall consider
whether any of the regulated services in the Nigerian electricity supply industry ought
to be exempted from tariff regulation.
(2) Upon a finding by the Commission that it is in the public interest, the
Commission, after consultation with the Minister, shall determine when, and under
what conditions, a regulated service may be exempt from tariff regulation, provided
that a licence from the Commission shall continue to be required.
(3) This section shall not be construed to limit the Commission's authority to
determine such matters as whether to restrict the introduction of competition to certain
geographical areas or to certain licensees or customers on a temporary or permanent
basis.
(4) The Commission shall determine the pre-conditions and any transitional
arrangements required for a service to be offered competitively, including, codes of
conduct, rules regarding access to information, access to the electric system, and
constraints against undue discrimination in the offering of services.
(5) The Commission shall also have an ongoing responsibility to consider, in
respect of services in competitive markets, the prevention or mitigation of abuses of
market power, in its decisions and orders regarding matters such as, but not limited
to, licence applications and the grant of licences; licence terms and conditions; the
setting of prices and tariffs; and whether or not to approve a merger, acquisition or
affiliation.
(6) In discharging its ongoing responsibility to monitor the electricity businesses
and markets to determine whether there is, or may be, an abuse of market power, the
Commission shall be entitled to :
Performance
standards and
codes.
Competition
and market
power.

-- 41 of 55 --

2005 No.6 Electric Power Sector Reform Act
(a) require information from licensees;
(b) undertake inquiries; and
(c) establish or contract with an independent entity to provide monitoring
services.
(7) In the event that the Commission determines that there is an abuse of market
power, it may:
(a) issue cease orders as may be required; and
(b) levy fines not exceeding fifty million Naira.
PART VIII-THE POWER CONSUMER ASSISTANCE FUND
83.-(1) The Commission shall set up and administer a fund under the name
"Power Consumer Assistance Fund" to be used for the purposes specified in subsection
(4) of this section.
(2) The Commission shall keep and manage the money and assets of the Power
Consumer Assistance Fund and shall handle the procedures for disbursement from the
Power Consumer Assistance Fund under this Act.
(3) The Power Consumer Assistance Fund shall consist of the following capital
and assets:
(a) the contributions delivered under section 85 ; and
(b) any subsidies received from the Federal Government of Nigeria as
appropriated by the National Assembly.
(4) The Power Consumer Assistance Fund shall be used to subsidise
underprivileged power consumers as specified by the Minister.
84.-(1) The Commission shall determine the contribution rates to be sent by
designated consumers and class of consumers and eligible customers to the Power
Consumer Assistance Fund and the subsidies to be disbursed from the Power Consumer
Assistance Fund, in accordance with policy directions issued by the Minister, and
subject to subsection (2) of this section.
(2) The Commission, while determining the contribution rates shall take into
consideration the impact of such rates on eligible customers and consumers who have
to assume the burden of such contributions.
85.-(1) All consumers and eligible customers liable to make contributions under
section 89 (1) shall make contributions to the Power Consumer Assistance Fund at the
rates and for the duration specified by the Commission under section 84(1).
(2) In making contributions to the Power Consumer Assistance Fund under
subsection (1), eligible customers shall pay contributions directly to the Commission.
Consumers shall pay contributions to their distribution licensee and the distribution
licensees shall compile such contributions and send them to the Commission. All
collections and payments shall be made in accordance with regulations established by
the Commission.
Establishment
of the Power
Consumer
Assistance
Fund.
Contribution
rates for the
Power
Consumers
Assistance
Fund
Contribution
payments for
the Power
Consumers
Assistance
Fund

-- 42 of 55 --

Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005 No.6
86.-Where the Minister has determined that subsidy payments from the Power
Consumer Assistance Fund should be disbursed to distribution companies for electricity
supplied to designated consumers, or classes of consumers, the Commission shall
disburse the subsidy to such distribution companies at the rates and for the durations
specified by the Commission.
87.-Any person who fails to pay to the Commission or a distribution licensee,
within the prescribed time period, any amount owing under this Part shall be liable to
a fine not exceeding three times the amount owed.
PART IX-RURAL ELECTRIFICATION
88.-(1) There is established an Agency, to be known as the Rural Electrification
Agency, which shall be a body corporate capable of suing and being sued in its corporate
name and, subject to this Act, of performing all acts that bodies corporate may by law
perform.
(2) (a) The Agency shall consist of seven members six of whom shall be appointed
from the six geo-political zones.
(b) The Minister shall draw up the structure of the Agency; provided that in the
composition of the membership due regard shall be given to professional competence,
stakeholder's interest and geographical spread.
(3) The headquarters of the Agency shall be at Abuja.
(4) The Minister shall, not later than one year from the date of commencement
of this Act, prepare and submit for the approval of the President a sustainable and
coordinated Rural Electrification Strategy and Plan for Nigeria.
(5) In preparing the Rural Electrification Strategy and Plan, the Minister shall
invite and consider the submissions of the Commission and the Rural Electrification
Agency.
(6) The Rural Electrification Agency, on such date each year as may be specified
by the Minister, shall submit to the Minister annual audited statement of accounts of
the Rural Electrification Fund.
(7) The accounts shall be audited by auditors appointed by the Rural
Electrification Agency with the approval of the Auditor-General of the Federation.
(8) The Agency shall not later than three months after the end of the financial
year propose and submit to the Minister statement of accounts in respect of that financial
year.
(9) The Minister shall, once in a quarter, submit to the President reports, prepared
in consultation with the Rural Electrification Agency and the Commission, on the
progress and achievement of the Rural Electrification Strategy and Plan, which shall
include information relating to :
(a) the expansion of the main grid;
(b) the development of isolated and mini-grid systems; and
.
Payments
from the
Power
Consumers
Assistance
Fund.
Fine for non
payment of
money owed
Establishment
and purpose of
the Rural
Electrification
Agency.

-- 43 of 55 --

2005 No. 6 Electric Power Sector Reform Act
(c) renewable energy power generation.
(10) The Minister shall periodically evaluate the impact of the rural electrification
programme.
(11) The Rural Electrification Agency shall set up and administer a fund under
the name Rural Electrification Fund to be used for the purposes specified in subsection
(13) Of this section.
(12) The Rural Electrification Fund shall consist of the following capital and
assets:
(a) any surplus appropriated pursuant to section 53 ;
(b) any fines obtained by the Commission pursuant to this Act;
(c) any donations, gifts or loans made by international agencies, State
Governments, the Federal Government, local communities, businesses or any other
entity ;
(d) the contribution that may be made pursuant to section 90; and interest and
other benefits accrued to the Rural Electrification Fund;
(e) monies appropriated by the National Assembly; and
(f) such percentage of the annual turnover of the licensee's as may be determined
by the Commission.
(13) The purpose of the Rural Electrification Fund shall be to promote, support
and provide rural electrification programmes through public and private sector
participation in order to :
(a) achieve more equitable regional access to electricity ;
(b) maximise the economic, social and environmental benefits of rural
electrification subsidies:
(c) promote expansion of the grid and development of off grid electrification;
and
(d) stimulate innovative approaches to rural electrification; provided that no
part of the Rural Electrification Fund shall be used as subsidies for consumption.
89.-(1) To the extent required by the Rural Electrification Strategy and Plan
and to cover any shortfall in the capital and assets of the Rural Electrification Fund,
the Commission may determine the contribution rates to be sent to the Rural
Electrification Fund by :
(a) eligible customers; and
(b) licensees as may be determined by the Commission.
(2) The Commission, while determining the contribution rates, shall take into
consideration the impact of such rates on eligible customers and licensees who have
to assume the burden of such contributions.
90.-(1) All licensees and eligible customers liable to make contributions under
section 89 (1) shall make contributions to the Rural Electrification Fund at the rates
and for the duration specified by the Commission under section 89 (1).
Contribution
rates for rural
electrification
Contribution
payments for
rural
electrification.

-- 44 of 55 --

Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005 No.6
(2) In making contributions to the Rural Electrification Fund, licensees and eligible
customers shall pay contributions directly to the Rural Electrification Agency.
(3) All collections and payments shall be made in accordance with procedures
established by the Rural Electrification Agency.
91.-(1) The Rural Electrification Agency shall, in consultation with the
Minister:
(a) establish objective and transparent criteria for the geographical allocation of
resources from the Rural Electrification Fund and such criteria shall be determined
taking into account:
(i) the need for financial support from the Fund;
(ii) progress in increasing rural electrification achieved through previous
disbursements from the Fund;
(iii) the existence of local matching funding; and
(b) develop an open, competitive and transparent procedure for making
disbursements from the Rural Electrification Fund to individual projects, including
the establishment of eligibility and selection criteria.
(2) The eligibility criteria for the purposes of subsection (1) (b) of this section
shall be determined taking into account:
(a) the extent to which the proposed activity can demonstrate technical, economic
and financial viability for a sustained period;
(b) the extent to which the proposed activity demonstrates support for rural
development taking into account the priorities of the local communities; and
(c) the level of community and investor commitment to the proposed activity.
(3) The selection criteria for the purposes of subsection (1) (b) of this section,
and the quantum of disbursement, shall be-determined taking into account:
(a) the resources available from the Rural Electrification Fund;
(b) the cost of each new connection created under the project; and
(c) other objective criteria that the Rural Electrification Agency may determine,
such as tariff levels and quality of service.
92. Any person who fails to pay to the Rural Electrlfic3tion Agency, within the
prescribed time period, any amount owing under this Part shall be liable to a tine not
exceeding three times the amount owed.
PART X-OFFENCES
93. Any person who, in any declaration required to be made under this Act,
makes any statement which he knows to be false or does not have reasonable grounds
to believe to be true commits an offence-and is liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding one hundred thousand Naira or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding
six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
Criteria tor
allocation of
resources from
the Rural
Electrification
Fund
Fine for non-
payment for
amount owed.
False
declarations.

-- 45 of 55 --

2005 No.6 Electric Power Sector Reform Act
94.-(1) Any person who contravenes any provision of this Act or any
regulations hereunder commits an offence and is liable on conviction, where no specific
penalty is prescribed therefore:
(a) as a first offender, to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand Naira or to
imprisonment for a period not exceeding one year or to both such fine and
imprisonment. ; or
(b) for subsequent convictions, to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand
Naira or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding three years or to both such fine
and imprisonment.
(2) Any person who:
(a) fails or refuses to furnish a return or to supply information in the manner and
in the time prescribed or furnishes a false or incomplete return or supplies false or
incomplete information; or
(b) wilfully delays or obstructs an inspector or police officer in the exercise of
the powers or duties conferred or imposed upon him by or under this Act; or
(c) fails or refuses, without reasonable cause, to give information to an inspector
or a police officer when required to do so under section 95 or gives false or
incomplete information;
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding one hundred
thousand Naira or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding one year or to both such
fine and imprisonment.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, any person who wilfully
destroys, injures or removes equipment or apparatus of a licensee commits an offence
and is liable on conviction to imprisonment for a period of not less than five years and
not more than seven years.
PART XI-GENERAL
95.-(1) The Commission may appoint persons employed by it to be inspectors
for the purposes of this Act and shall furnish each person so appointed with a certificate
stating that he has been appointed as an inspector.
(2) The inspectors shall, in addition to any other functions that may be assigned
to them by the Commission, be responsible for inspecting undertakings to ensure the
safety of operations and to investigate accidents.
(3) Subject to subsection (6) of this section, an inspector or a police officer may,
at all reasonable times, enter the premises:
(a) of a licensee; or
(b) of any other person whereon he has reasonable cause to suspect an offence
against this Act has been committed and shall have power to make such examination,
inspection and inquiry and do such things as may appear to him necessary for
ascertaining whether compliance has been made with this Act.
Offences.
Inspectors.

-- 46 of 55 --

Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005 No.6
(4) Subject to subsection (6) of this section, all books, records, accounts and
documents required to be kept by a licensee in terms of this Act shall be open to
inspection at all reasonable times by an inspector or by a police officer.
(5) Subject to subsection (6) of this section, an inspector may inspect, at all
reasonable times, a station or 'other equipment or apparatus or premises worked or
used by or in the possession or under the control of a licensee.
(6) The powers of entry and inspection conferred by this section shall only be
exercised in accordance with the consent of the person in charge of the premises
concerned or in accordance with a search warrant issued by a magistrate having
jurisdiction over such premises, upon an application made to such a magistrate by an
individual appointed for such a purpose by the Commission.
(7) An inspector, or a police officer exercising powers conferred upon him by a
search warrant issued under subsection (6) of this section, may seize any equipment,
apparatus, book, record or document which he has reasonable cause to suspect will
afford evidence of the commission of an offence against this Act and may retain it for
so long as may be necessary for the purpose of any examination, investigation, trial or
inquiry.
(8) An inspector shall, on demand by any person affected by the exercise of the
powers conferred upon him by this section, exhibit the certificate issued to him under
subsection (1) of this section.
96.-(1) The Commission may, make regulations prescribing all matters which
by this Act are required or permitted to be prescribed or which, in the opinion of the
Commission, are necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving
effect to this Act.
(2) Without derogation from the generality of subsection (1) of this section,
regulations made in terms of subsection (1) of this section may provide for any or all
of the following:
(a) the administration of the affairs of the Commission, including, inter alia, the
holding of meetings, hearings and proceedings, arbitration and mediation
proceedings, the conduct of inquiries and investigations, becoming a party, the
handling of information, the rules by which evidence shall be taken, and generally
the conduct of its business;
(b) the duties, powers, rights, and obligations of a licensee;
(c) the procedure for applying for licences, requirements for information and
documentation to be submitted by applicants ;
(d) the procedure for amending or cancelling licences;
(e) the determination of the standards of performance that will be required from
licensees;
(f) the information that will be required from licensees and the manner and
form by which it shall be provided;
Regulation.

-- 47 of 55 --

2005 No. 6 Electric Power Sector Reform Act
(g) the method and manner by which the tariffs that may be charged by licensees
for their services will be determined;
(h) fees, levies, and other charges that may be payable by licensees, eligible
customers or consumers;
(i) the regulation of licensee investments, assets and properties, and the interest
in such assets and properties, in connection with the electricity industry ;
(j) customer-related matters, such as complaint handling procedures, practices
concerning customers with difficulties paying bills, connection and disconnection
procedures;
(k) the resource procurement policies of, and the associated contracting by, the
licensees, including, as may be applicable, the review and approval of same;
(l) the regulatory treatment of rural electric schemes and investments;
(m) procedures for addressing licensee mergers, acquisitions, affiliate
relationships and transactions;
(n) procedures for market power monitoring, mitigation and enforcement;
(o) the terms and conditions for the provision of system access by transmission
and distribution licensees to other entities;
(p) fines and penalties that may be payable by licensees or consumers for
violations of those things for which they may be levied under this Act; and
(q) such other regulations as may be required.
(3) Regulations made pursuant to subsection (1) may provide for the imposition
of penalties not exceeding ten thousand Naira or, in default of payment, imprisonment
for a period not exceeding six months for contravention of the regulations.
(4) Regulations made under this section shall be published in the official Gazette
by the Commission.
97.-(1) If an inspector, a police officer, a Commissioner or an employee of the
Commission acquires, in the course of his duties, information relating to the financial
affairs of any person, or to any commercial secret, or if any other person indirectly
acquires such information from an inspector, a police officer, a Commissioner or an
employee of the Commission, he shall not for personal gain make use of such
information, nor disclose it to any other person except:
(a) for the purpose of legal proceedings under this Act or any other law;
(b) to the extent that it may be necessary to do so for the purpose of this Act or
any other law; and
(c) to another inspector and commissioner or employee of the Commission.
(2) No Inspector, Police Officer, Commissioner or employee of the Commission
shall, for personal gain, make use of any information acquired by him in the course of
his duties for a period of five years after the date on which he ceased to be an inspector,
Commissioner or employee.
(3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) of this section commits
offence and is liable on conviction to the forfeiture of any proceeds accruing to him on
Disclosure of
confidential
information
and use of
information
acquired by
inspectors,
etc., for
personal gain.

-- 48 of 55 --

Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005 No. 6
account of the contravention and to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand Naira
or to imprisonment for a period· not exceeding two years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
PART XII-CONSEQUENTIAL AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
98.-(1) Any regulations, by-laws or notices which, immediately before the
.initial transfer date, were in force under the Electricity Act or the National Electric
Power Authority Act shall continue in force, mutatis mutandis, as if they had been
made by the Commission under this Act, and may be amended or repealed upon the
issuance of regulations by the Commission in accordance with the provisions of this
Act.
(2) Any licence, certificate, authority or permit which was issued in terms of the
Acts referred to in subsection (1) of this section and which had effect immediately
before the initial transfer date shall continue to have effect, mutatis mutandis, for the
remainder of its period of validity as if it had been issued under the appropriate provision
of this Act.
(3) Any tariff, price, levy or surcharge which, immediately before the initial
transfer date, was chargeable within any area in respect of the provision of electricity
to consumers or to any particular consumer or any undertaker shall, on and after the
initial transfer date and until alternative provision is made pursuant to this Act, continue
to be chargeable in respect of the provision of electricity, to those or similar consumers
by a licensee who provides electricity within the area concerned.
(4) Subject to this Act, any right in or over land or water which, immediately
before the initial transfer date, vested in any person pursuant to the Electricity Act or
the National Electric Power Authority Act shall, on and after the initial transfer date,
continue to vest in the initial holding company concerned as if it had been acquired in
terms of this Act.
(5) Subject to this Act, any permission granted, direction given or other thing
whatsoever made, done or commenced which, immediately before the initial transfer
date, had or was capable of acquiring force and effect pursuant to the Electricity Act
or the National Electric Power Authority Act, shall, on and after the initial transfer
date, continue to have, or, as the case may be, to be capable of acquiring, force and
effect as it had been granted, given, made, done or commenced, as the case may be,
pursuant to the equivalent provision of this Act.
(6) The provisions of the Utilities Charges Commission Act 1992, as amended,
shall not apply to any person to whom a licence has been issued under this Act, in
respect of the licensed activities of that person.
99. The Electricity Act and the National Electric Power Authority Act as amended
are hereby repealed.
PART XIII - INTERPRETATION AND CITATION
100:--(1) In this Act :
"affiliate" in relation to a licensee means any holding company or subsidiary of
the licensee or any subsidiary of a holding company of a licensee, and, unless the
Consequential
and
transitional
provisions
Cap. 106 LFN
1990
Cap. 256
LFN 1990
Repeal of
Cap. 256
LFN 1990.
Interpretation.

-- 49 of 55 --

2005 No 6 Electric Power Sector Reform Act
Commission decides to the contrary, subsidiary status shall be presumed to arise from
the ownership of or the power to vote, directly or indirectly, ten percent or more of the
voting securities of such entity and holding status shall be determined accordingly;
"ancillary services" means those functions necessary for reliable operation of a
power system, which may include, but are not limited to, services that would provide
or permit the following:
(a) facilities scheduling, control and dispatch;
(b) reactive power and voltage control ;
(c) frequency regulation;
(d) operating reserves; and
(e) black start ;
"Authority" means the National Electric Power Authority established pursuant
to the National Electric Power Authority Act;
"Bureau of Public Enterprises" means the Bureau of Public Enterprises
established pursuant to the Public Enterprises (Privatisation and Commercialisation
Act) ;
"captive generation" means generation of electricity for the purpose of
consumption by the generator and which is consumed by the generator itself and not
sold to a third party ;
"Code of Conduct" means any rules established by the Commission governing
behaviour, relationships, and practices between licensees and their affiliates;
"Commission" means the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission
established under Part III of this Act;
"Companies and Allied Matters Act" means the Companies and Allied Matters
Act Cap. 59 LFN 1990, as amended;
"Competition Transition Charge" means any charge established under section
29 of this Act ;.
"consumer" means any end-user of electricity who is a customer of a distribution
licensee that is not an eligible customer and, for purposes of filing a complaint with the
Commission and for any other reason that the Commission may determine, a person who
is temporarily disconnected or otherwise without service, provided that a person who has
applied for, but has yet to receive, service shall also be deemed to be a consumer;
"control area" means a transmission system or interconnected transmission
systems and interconnected generating units, bounded by metering and telemetry
equipment that permits a system operator to apply a generation control scheme in
order to:
(a) match the electrical output of the generating stations within the control.
area and energy purchased from entities outside the control area, less energy
sold to entities outside the control area, with the load within the control area;

-- 50 of 55 --

Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005 No. 6
(b) maintain scheduled interchange with other control areas, within the limits
of good utility practice ;
(c) maintain the frequency of the control area's electric power systems within
reasonable limits in accordance with good utility practice;
(d) maintain power flows on transmission facilities within appropriate limits
to preserve reliability; and
(e) provide sufficient generating capacity to maintain operating reserves in
accordance with good utility practice ;
"cross subsidies" means the subsidisation of one class or group of consumers by
another class or group of consumers;
"distribution" means the delivery of electricity over a distribution system;
"distribution licence" means a licence granted pursuant to section 67 ;
"distribution system" means the system of facilities, as defined by the
Commission, consisting wholly or mainly of low voltage (less than 132kV) electric
lines used for the distribution of electricity from grid supply points to the point of
delivery to consumers or eligible customers, and includes any electrical plant and
meters operated in connection with the distribution of electricity, but shall not include
any part of a transmission system;
"Electricity Act" means the Electricity Act Cap. 106 LFN 1990, as amended;
"eligible customer" means a customer that is eligible, pursuant to a directive or
directives issued by the Minister under section 27, to purchase power from a licensee
other than a distribution licensee ;
"generation" means the production at a generating station of electric power and
other generation products such as, but not limited to, reactive power;
"generation licence" means a licence issued under section 64 ;
"generating station" means a station for generating electricity, including
buildings, plant and machinery and all accessories used for that purpose and the site
to be used for the station or accessories ;
"Grid Code" means instructions, rules, procedures, guidelines, etc. for the
operation and planning of an interconnected power system and accounting requirements
relating thereto ;
"independent power producer" means an entity that is granted a generation
licence under section 64 (3) (b);
"independent system operator" means a system operator that, under section
26 (7), is not affiliated with an entity holding a transmission licence;
"initial holding company" means the company formed under section 1 ;
"initial transfer date" means the date fixed by the National Council on
Privatisation under section 3 (l) ;
"land" means land, tenements, hereditaments and appurtenances, or any estate
or interest therein ;
"licence" means a licence issued by the Commission under Part IV of this Act;

-- 51 of 55 --

2005 No.6 Electric Power Sector Reform Act
"licensee" means any person who holds a licence issued under Part IV of this
Act;
"lifeline tariff” means a tariff set by the Commission with prices that incorporate
cross subsidies by other customers and which may be enjoyed by such group of
consumers as the Commission may designate under section 76 (5) ;
"local authority" means a local government, municipal council, town council,
rural district council or local board;
"market power" means the ability of a seller or group of sellers to maintain
prices above competitive levels, or to maintain stable prices while reducing the quality
of product or service provided, for a significant period of time;
"market rules" means rules approved .under section 26 (2) ; .
,
"Land Use Act" means the Land Use Act Cap. 202 LFN 1990, as amended;
"Minister" means the Honourable Minister of Power and Steel, or any other
Minister to whom the President may from time to time assign administrative functions
in respect of this Act;
"National Council on Privatisation" means the Council established under section
8 of the Public Enterprises (Privatisation and Commercialisation) Act;
"National Electric Power Authority Act" means the National Electric Power
Authority Act Cap. 256 LFN 1990, as amended;
"person" includes an individual, company, partnership or any other association
of individuals, whether incorporated or not;
"Power Consumer Assistance Fund" means the fund established under Part VIII
of this Act ;
"Public Enterprises (Privatisation and Commercialisation) Act" means the Public
Enterprises (Privatisation and Commercialisation) Act;
"relative" means spouse, child, parent, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, in-laws,
cousins, and, where applicable, their spouses;
"securities" means shares, debentures, bonds and other securities of a company;
"six geo-political zones" for the time being means North Central (consisting of
Benue State, Nassarawa State, Niger' State, Kogi State, Plateau State, Kwara State,
FCT);North East (consisting of Bauchi State, Borno State, Gombe State, Yobe State,
Adamawa State and'Taraba State), North West (consisting of Kano state, Kaduna
State, Katsina State, Jigawa State, Kebbi State, Sokoto State, Zamfara State), South-
South (consisting of Delta State, Edo State, Rivers State, Akwa Ibom State, Cross
River State, Bayelsa State), South East (consisting of Anambra State, Abia State, Enugu
State, Ebonyi State, Imo State), South West (consisting of Lagos State, Oyo State,
Ogun State, Osun State, Ondo State, Ekiti State) under section 34 (3) of this Act;
"Stamp Duties Act" means the Stamp Duties Act Cap. 411 LFN 1990, as
amended;
"street" means any street, highway, or road, or any part of a street, highway or
road, and includes :
(a) any bridge, ferry or pontoon over which such street, highway or road passes;

-- 52 of 55 --

Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005 No.6
(b) any drift in the line of such street, highway or road;
(c) any approach, culvert, cutting, dam, ditch, drain, embankment, fence, grid,
guard, kerb, parapet, subway or other work Of thing belonging to or connected with
or forming part of such street, highway or road; and
(d) any sanitary lane or private street;
"successor company" means a successor company, formed pursuant to section 8
of this Act, to take over designated functions of the initial holding company;
"successor generating company" means the successor company that is granted a
generation licence under section 64 (3) ;
"system operation" means the operation of one or more transmission systems
and
"system operator" shall be construed accordingly;
"system operation licence" means a licence granted under section 66 ;
"tariff' means a tariff approved by the Commission pursuant to Part IV of this
Act that specifies the prices, terms and conditions under which electricity service is to
be provided ;
''temporary bulk purchase and resale licence" means a licence issued under
section 68 (2) ;
"trading" means any form of marketing, brokering or intermediation in the sale
of electricity, whether or not it entails the purchase of electricity for resale, or whether
or not Title is taken to the electricity sold;
"trading license" means a license issued pursuant to section 67;
"transfer order" means an order issued by the National Council on Privatisation
pursuant to section 10 (1) of this Act;
''transferee'' means a person .to whom employees, assets, liabilities, fights and
obligations are transferred by a transfer order;
"transmission" means the conveyance of electric power and energy over a
transmission system ;
''transmission licence" means a licence issued under section 65 ;
''transmission system" means a system, as defined by the Commission, consisting
wholly or mainly of high voltage (greater than or equal to 132kV) electric lines for
the conveyance of electricity within an undertaking or from one undertaking to another,
including any transmission lines, transformers, switchgear and other works necessary
for and used in connection with such electrical equipment, and the buildings as may
be required to accommodate the transformers, switchgear and other works; and
"undertaking" means any undertaking which generates transmits, distributes or
supplies electricity, with all the assets and liabilities appertaining thereto.
101. This Act may be cited as the Electric Power Sector Reform Act, 2004. Citation

-- 53 of 55 --

2005 No. 6 Electric Power Sector Reform Act
EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM
This Act provides for the formation of companies to take over the functions, assets, liabilities,
and staff of the National Electric Power Authority; develop competitive electricity markets; establish
the Nigeria Electricity Regulatory Commission; provide for the licensing and regulation of the
generation, transmission, distribution and supply of electricity; enforce such matters as performance
standards, consumer rights and obligations and to provide for the determination of tariffs.

-- 54 of 55 --

-- 55 of 55 --