1. Distiller's licence
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, no person shall without a distiller's licence under this section make or
distill spirits; and application for such licence shall be made to the Board of Customs and Excise in the prescribed
manner.
[L.N. 118 of 1964. 1965 No. 27.]
(2) If the Board after due enquiry is satisfied that the premises mentioned in the application and intended to be
used by the applicant for the purposes of distillation are in such a state that proper control for excise purposes
may be exercised over activities to be carried on therein and that any other condition relating to the premises
required by the Board has been complied with by the applicant, it shall, on payment of the sum of two hundred
naira issue to the applicant a distiller's licence in the prescribed form in respect of such premises.

-- 2 of 44 --

(3) A distiller's licence issued under this section shall, unless previously revoked, remain in force until 31 December
next following the date of the issue, and shall then expire.
(4) If the Board is not so satisfied and refuses the application it shall notify the applicant of its refusal, and give to
the applicant particulars of what the Board considers necessary to be done to the premises.
(5) If at anytime during the currency of a distiller's licence the Board is satisfied that proper control for excise
purposes can no longer be exercised over the premises specified in the distiller's licence by reason of the state of
the premises, or that the person to whom such licence was issued has failed to comply with any conditions
required by the Board relating to the premises or the making or distilling of spirits therein or has ceased to make
spirits on such premises, it may revoke the distiller's licence and give notice of the revocation in the prescribed
manner.
(6) Any person who makes or distils spirits contrary to the provisions of subsection (1) of this section shall be guilty
of an offence, and liable‐
(a) 	on summary conviction to a fine of not less than four hundred naira or more than one
thousand naira or to imprisonment for a term of two years, or to both;
(b) 	on conviction on indictment to a fine of an unlimited amount or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding five years or to both,
and any spirits so distilled shall be liable to forfeiture.
(7) The provisions of this section shall, in any State or the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja be in addition to and not
in substitution for any other provisions in force therein which affect the making of spirits, and nothing in the
foregoing provisions of this section shall be construed as purporting to authorise the carrying on in any State or the
Federal Capital Territory, Abuja of any activity which is prohibited by the law thereof.
2. 	Still licence
(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, no person shall posses any still unless‐
(a) 	the still is situated on premises specified in a distiller's licence; or
(b) 	there is in force a still licence issued to him by the Board under this section.
(2) Where an application is made to the Board in the prescribed manner for the issue of a still licence, and the
Board is satisfied, it shall issue the licence to the applicant free of charge.
(3) A licence under subsection (2) of this section may be issued subject to such conditions not inconsistent with this
Act as to methylation or the denaturing of spirits as the Board for the protection of excise duty may think fit.
(4) If a person gives notice to the Board in the prescribed form of his intention to part with or that he has parted
with possession of, or has destroyed any still in respect of which a licence issued to him under this section is in
force, the Board shall make such enquiries as it thinks fit; and if it is satisfied, the licence shall cease to have effect
as regards the still.
(5) Any person contravening the provisions of subsection (1) of this section shall be guilty of an offence and liable‐

-- 3 of 44 --

(a) 	on summary conviction, to a fine of not less than four hundred naira or to
imprisonment for a term of six months, or to both;
(b) 	on conviction on indictment, to a fine of not less than one thousand naira or to
imprisonment for a term of two years, or to both.
3. 	Manufacture of spirits from crude gin
(1) Any person to whom a distiller's licence has been granted under section 1 of this Act may be approved by the
Board for the purposes of this section.
(2) Any person may, on payment of a fee of twenty naira annually, be registered by the Board as an agent for the
supply of crude gin to approved distillers.
(3) Approval and registration under subsections (1) and (2) of this section shall be applied for and recorded in such
form and manner as the Board may deem fit to direct.
(4) Notwithstanding any other enactment, it shall be lawful‐
(a) 	for an approved distiller to obtain crude gin from a registered agent and, subject to
such regulations for quality control as may be made by the Minister of Industries, to 	distil or
otherwise convert the crude gin into potable spirits for sale;
(b) 	for a registered agent to supply crude gin to an approved distiller, and for that purpose
a registered agent may‐
(i) 	possess a still and distil crude gin; or
(ii) 	obtain crude gin from another person; and
(c) 	for the purpose of supplying crude gin to a registered agent, for
any person to‐
(i) 	possess a still and distil crude gin; or
(ii) 	possesses and deal in crude gin.
(5) For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared that nothing in this section shall be construed as‐
(a) 	authorising any person to sell crude gin to any person other than a registered agent;
(b) 	a registered agent to sell crude gin to any person other than an approved distiller.
(6) In this section‐
"approved distiller" means a distiller approved under subsection (1) of this section;
"crude gin" means spirits distilled from fermented or partly fermented palm wine or from any other fermented or
partly fermented liquor produced in Nigeria, with or without flavouring essence;
"registered agent" means an agent registered under subsection (2) of this section.

-- 4 of 44 --

4. 	Regulations
(1) The Minister may make such regulations with respect to the conduct of premises specified in a distiller's licence
under this Act as appear to the Minister to be appropriate for the purpose of ensuring the payment of excise duty
on spirits made on the premises; and without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by this
subsection, regulations may in particular provide for‐
(a) 	prohibiting or restricting the carrying on, on the premises or particular parts thereof of
such activities as may be prescribed;
(b) 	regulating the manner in which and the period during which any activity may be
carried on the premises or particular parts thereof;
(c) 	providing for the inspection by officers of the Board of the premises and all activates
carried on the premises;
(d) 	requiring notice to be given of any change or use which may be made of the premises
or any part thereof;
(e) 	regulating the removal of spirits from the premises;
(f) 	prescribing the form of application for and of the distiller's licence to be used for the
purposes of this Act;
(g) 	regulating the calculation, securing and collection of excise duty
on distilled spirits,
and the regulations may provide for the imposition of penalties in respect of any offence against the regulations
(not less than two hundred naira or more than five hundred naira in respect of any particular offence or to
imprisonment for a term of two years, or to both) and for the forfeiture or disposal of any thing in respect of which
such an offence is committed.
(2) The Minister may make such regulations with respect to the custody and use of stills licenced under
this Act and the application for and form of any such licence, as appear to the Minister to be appropriate for the
purpose of ensuring that the stills are not used to make spirits; and without prejudice to the generality of the
powers so conferred, regulations may, in particular, contain provisions requiring the furnishing of information with
respect to‐
(a) 	any change or proposed change in the location or use of stills;
(b) 	the disposal of stills or any part of a still by way of sale or
otherwise,
and the regulations may provide for the imposition of fines for offences against the regulations of not less than
one hundred naira or more than four hundred naira in the case of any particular offence.
5. 	Making of entries
(1) Where by or under any excise laws a person is required to make entry of any premises or article‐

-- 5 of 44 --

(a) 	the entry shall be made in such form and manner and contain such
particulars; and
(b) 	the premises or article shall be kept and marked in such manner,
as the Board may direct.
(2) No entry shall be valid unless the person by whom it was made‐
(a) 	had at the time of its making attained the age of twenty‐one years; and
(b) 	was at that time and is for the time being a true and real owner of the trade
in respect of which the entry was made.
(3) Where any person required to make entry is a body corporate‐
(a) 	the entry shall be signed by a director, general manager, secretary or other similar
officer of the body and, except where authority for that person to sign has been given 	under
the seal of the body, shall be made under that seal; and
(b) 	both the body corporate and the person by whom the entry is signed shall be liable for
all duties charged in respect of the trade to which the entry relates.
(4) If any person making entry of any premises or article contravenes or fails to comply with any direction of the
Board given under this section with respect thereto, he shall be guilty of an offence punishable on conviction by a
fine of two hundred naira.
6. 	New or further entries of same premises
(1) The Board may at any time, by notice in writing to the person by whom any existing entry was signed addressed
to him at any premises entered by him, require a new entry to be made of any premises or
article to which the existing entry relates, and the existing entry shall, without prejudice to any liability incurred,
become void at the expiration of fourteen days from the delivery of the notice.
(2) Save as permitted by the Board and subject to such conditions as it may impose, no premises or article of which
entry has been made by any person shall, while that entry remains in force, be entered by any person for any
purpose of the excise laws and any entry made in contravention of this subsection shall be void.
(3) Where the person by whom entry has been made of any premises absconds or quits possession of the premises
and discontinues the trade in respect of which the entry was made, and the Board permits a further entry to be
made of the premises by some other person, the former entry shall be deemed to have been withdrawn and shall
be void.
7. 	Proof as to entries
For the purpose of any proceedings before any court, if any question arises as to whether or not entry under the
excise laws has been made by any person, or of any premises or article, or for any purpose, then‐
(a) 	if a document purporting to be an original entry made by the person, or of the
premises or article, or for the purpose in question is produced to the court by an 	officer,

-- 6 of 44 --

that document shall, until the contrary is proved, be sufficient evidence that 	the entry was so made;
and
(b) 	if the officer in whose custody any such entry, if made, would be, gives evidence that
the original entries produced by him to the court constitute all those in his custody 	and that
no such entry as is in question is among them, it shall be deemed, until the 	contrary is proved, that
no such entry has been made.
8. Offences in connection with entries
(1) If any person being the holder of a licence under this Act uses, for any purpose of his trade, any
premises or article required by or under the excise laws to be entered for that purpose without entry having been
duly made thereof, he shall be guilty of an offence punishable on conviction by a fine of four hundred naira, and
any goods found on any such premises shall be liable to forfeiture.
(2) If any person who has made entry of any premises or article fraudulently uses those premises or that
article for any purpose other than that for which entry was made thereof, he shall be liable to a fine of four
hundred naira.
9. 	Power to enter for inspection purposes
(1) An officer may at any time enter upon any premises referred to in any licence under this Act for the
purpose of inspecting the premises and may search for, examine and take account of any equipment, vessels,
utensils, goods or materials belonging to or in any way connected with distillation.
(2) Where an officer, after having demanded admission into any such premises and declared his name and
business at the entrance thereof, is not immediately admitted, that officer and any person acting in his aid may
break open any door or window of the premises or break through any wall thereof for the purpose of obtaining
admission.
10. Power to search for concealed pipes, etc.
(1) If an officer has reasonable ground to suspect that any secret pipe or other means of conveyance,
cock, vessel or utensil is kept or used by a licensee under this Act, that officer may at any time, but by night only in
the company of a police officer, break open any part of the premises of that trader and forcibly enter thereon, and
so far as is reasonably necessary break up the ground in or adjourning those premises or any wall thereof to search
for that pipe or other means of conveyance, cock, vessel or utensil.
(2) If the officer finds any pipe or other form of conveyance leading to or from the licensee's premises, he
may enter any other premises from or into which it leads, and so far as is reasonably necessary, break up any part
of those other premises to trace its course, and may cut it away and turn any cock thereon, and examine whether
it conveys or conceals any goods chargeable with a duty of excise, or any materials used in the manufacture of
such goods, in such manner as to prevent a true account thereof from being taken.
(3) Every pipe or other means of conveyance, cock, vessel or utensil referred to in this section, and all
goods chargeable with a duty of excise or materials for the manufacture of such goods found therein, shall be
liable to forfeiture, and the licensee shall be guilty of an offence punishable on conviction by a fine of two hundred
naira.

-- 7 of 44 --

(4) If any damage is done in any such search and the search is unsuccessful, the Board shall make good the
damage.
11. Power to prohibit use of certain substances in excisable goods
(1) If it appears to the satisfaction of the Board that any substance or liquor is used, or is capable of being
used, in the manufacture or preparation for sale of any goods chargeable with a duty of excise, and that that
substance or liquor is of a noxious or detrimental nature or, being a chemical or artificial extract or product, may
affect prejudicially the interests of the revenue, the Board may by notice in the Federal Gazette prohibit the use of
that substance or liquor in the manufacture or preparation for sale of any goods specified in the notice.
(2) If, while any such notice is in force, any person knowingly uses a substance or liquor thereby
prohibited in the manufacture or preparation for sale of any goods specified in the regulations he shall be guilty of
an offence punishable on conviction by a fine of one hundred naira.
(3) Any substance or liquor the use of which is for the time being prohibited by any such notice found in
the possession of any person licensed for the manufacture or sale of any goods specified in the notice, and any
goods in the manufacture or preparation of which any substance or liquid has been used contrary to any such
prohibition, shall be liable to forfeiture.
12. Payment of duty by excise traders
(1) Every licensee shall pay any duty of excise payable in respect of his trade at or within such time, at
such place and to such person as the Board may direct, whether or not payment of that duty has been secured by
bond or otherwise.
(2) If any duty payable is not paid as aforesaid, it shall be paid on demand made by the Board either to the
licensee personally or by delivering the demand in writing at his place of abode or business, and if it is not paid on
demand the licensee shall in addition be liable to a penalty of double the amount due.
13. Liability of ostensible owner
Any person who acts ostensibly as the owner or who is a principal manager of the business of a licensee
under this Act in respect of which entry of any premises or article has been made or who occupies or uses any
entered premises or article shall, notwithstanding that he is under the age of twenty‐one years, be liable in like
manner as the real and true owner of the business for all duties charged and all penalties incurred in respect of
that business.
14. Effect of variation in balances struck or excess, etc., in stock of materials
If at any time when an account is taken by the proper officer and a balance is struck‐
(a) 	of the quantity of spirits in the possession of the distiller, that quantity differs from the
quantity thereof which ought to be in his possession according to any account 	required
by this Act to be kept‐
(i) 	if the former quantity exceeds the latter the excess shall be liable to
forfeiture; and

-- 8 of 44 --

(ii) 	if the former quantity is less than the latter, the holder of the distiller's
licence shall be liable to a fine of double the excise duty which would be 	payable
on the quantity of pure alcohol equal to that on the deficiency;
(b) 	of the stock of materials, any excess is found or goods not authorised for use as
materials are discovered in the stock, such excess or goods shall be liable to forfeiture;
(c) 	of the stock of materials, any deficiency is found which cannot be accounted for to the
satisfaction of the Board, the quantity or value of materials representing such
deficiency shall be deemed to have been used in manufacture and, in any particular 	case,
duty shall be charged on the quantity or value of excisable goods reckoned to 	have been produced with
such quantity or value of materials.
15. Power to enter on premises, etc., in case of unlawful distillation
If any officer has reasonable grounds to suspect that distillation contrary to the provisions of this Act is
being carried out on any land or premises, he may enter thereon, if need be by force, and dismantle or seize the
still or other apparatus used in conjunction therewith.
16. Power to seize goods in particular cases
Where spirits subject to excise duty become liable to forfeiture under this Act but spirits are not available
in sufficient quantity for forfeiture, the Board may seize from the stock of the licensee, any quantity of spirits
available or goods capable of conversion into spirits of such quantity, as would attract up to the same amount of
duty as that on the spirits liable to forfeiture.
17. Forfeiture and condemnation of spirits seized
(1) In the application of this section, the provisions of the First Schedule to this Act shall have effect for
the purposes of forfeiture, and all proceedings for the condemnation of any thing as being forfeited, under the
excise laws.
[First Schedule.]
(2) Any officer, police officer, or person authorised in that behalf by the Board, may at any time seize or
detain any spirits liable to forfeiture under this Act or which such officer, police officer or person so authorised has
reasonable grounds to believe is liable to forfeiture under the excise laws.
(3) Spirits so seized or detained shall forthwith be delivered to the Board; and pending determination by
the Board as to forfeiture or disposal, things delivered to the Board may be condemned as forfeiture or otherwise
dealt with as the Board may direct.
18. Power to levy distress
(1) Where any excise duty remains unpaid on spirits distilled under licence after the time within which the
same is payable, the Board may authorise the levying of a distress‐
(a) 	upon the goods, chattels and effects of the licensee in respect of which the duty
remains unpaid; and

-- 9 of 44 --

(b) 	upon all equipment, plant, tools, ships, vehicles, animals, goods and effects used in the
distillation, sale or distribution of spirits found in the premises or on any land in the use or possession of such
manufacturer or of any person on his behalf, or in trust for him.
(2) The authority to distrain under this section shall be in the form in the Second Schedule to this Act, and
shall be a warrant and authority to levy by distress the amount of any duties due.
[Second Schedule.]
(3) For the purpose of levying any distress under this section, any person authorised in writing by the
Board may execute a warrant of distress and if necessary break open any building or place in the daytime for the
purpose of levying such distress.
(4) The person so authorised under subsection (3) of this section may call to his assistance any police
officer, who shall, when required, aid and assist in the execution of the warrant of distress and in levying the
distress.
(5) Where distraint is made, the burden of proof that the goods or things are not liable to seizure shall lie
upon the person claiming they are not so liable, and the goods or things seized may, at the cost of the owner
thereof, be kept for fourteen days; and if the amount due in respect of duty and the cost and charges of and
incidental to the distress are not then paid, the goods or things so seized may be sold.
(6) Out of the proceeds of the sale there shall be paid first the excise duty and thereafter the costs or
charges of and incidental to the sale and keeping of the distress; and the residue, if any, shall be paid to the owner
of the goods or things distrained, upon demand made by the owner within one year of the date of sale.
(7) In exercise of the power of distress conferred by this section, the person to whom authority to levy
duties is given may distrain upon all goods or things belonging to the licensee wherever the same may be found.
19. Power to require excise control facilities
(1) The holder of a licence shall provide and maintain at his own expense on premises referred to in the
licence‐
(a) 	such office, lavatory and sanitary accommodation, with the requisite furniture, lighting
and cleaning, as the Board may reasonably require for the use of the proper officer 	under
this Act; and
(b) 	such appliances and facilities as may be required to enable the proper officer at any
time to examine, or search or to perform any other of his duties at such premises as 	the
Board may direct,
and if the licensee fails to comply with any of the forgoing requirements of this subsection, the Board may revoke
or suspend any such licence.
(2) The requirements which the Board is authorised to impose on the holder of a licence by subsection (1)
of this section, shall include the requirement to provide at his own expense and lease to the Board, on such
reasonable terms as the Board may determine, living accommodation which the Board considers suitable for
occupation by, and by the household of, any officer charged with duties which, in the opinion of the Board, make it

-- 10 of 44 --

desirable that he should reside on or near the premises for which the excise licence in question is granted; and the
provisions of that subsection for failure to comply therewith shall have effect accordingly.
(3) The proper officer may affix a lock or seal to any fitting on the premises or on any apparatus or thing
whatsoever therein and for such purpose he may require the holder of a distiller's licence to provide and maintain
at his own expense any such fitting.
(4) If a licensee fails to comply with the requirements of subsection (3) of this section, the Board may
provide and install the fitting, and any expense incurred shall be paid on demand by the licensee.
(5) The failure to pay any expense incurred under subsection (4) of this section, shall be an offence for
which the offender shall, in addition to the requirement of payment of any such expense, be liable on summary
conviction to a fine of two hundred naira.
(6) If the holder of a distiller's licence or any member of his family or any servant of the holder‐
(a) 	wilfully destroys or damages a fitting or any lock, key or seal intended for use therewith; or
(b) 	improperly obtains access to any place or article secured by any such lock or seal thereon; or
(c) 	has any fitting on premises or on any apparatus or thing whatsoever fastened or attached in 	such
fashion that adequate supervision and control by any proper officer for the purposes of this Act is not practicable,
the holder, or member of his family, or the servant, as the case may be, shall on conviction be liable to a fine of
one thousand naira.
20. Licensees to keep record books
(1) Every holder of a distiller's licence shall keep on the premises mentioned in the licence such records
and make all entries therein relating to the manufacture, storage and delivery of spirits and materials as the Board
may require.
(2) Entries shall be made legibly in ink and no cancellation or amendment shall be made save in such
manner as the Board may, from time to time, direct; and if the Board requires records to be kept, the proper
officer may inspect them at any time and take copies of any entry.
(3) The failure to comply with the requirements of this section is an offence for which the offender shall
be liable on summary conviction to a fine of four hundred naira.
21. Power to require information, etc., from licensees
(1) The holder of any licence under this Act shall‐
(a) 	produce to the Board for inspection as and when required invoices and other books or 	documents in his
possession relating to spirits manufactured by him during the preceding 	twelve 	months or any part
thereof;
(b) 	supply answer to questions relating to the distillation of spirits and related matters as the 	Board
may reasonably require to implement the provisions of any of the excise laws;
(c) 	produce to the Board such evidence as it may reasonably require in support of any answer so 	given;

-- 11 of 44 --

(d) 	make returns in such form and at such intervals as the Board may require,
and if any manufacturer fails without excuse to comply with any requirement of this subsection, he shall be liable
on summary conviction to a fine of four hundred naira.
(2) The powers conferred on the Board by subsection (1) of this section, in so far as they relate to
questions regarding the cost of production and manufacturer's profits in respect of any spirits, shall be exercisable
by the Board alone and not by any other person.
(3) The Board may require the holder of a licence under this Act to supply to it in every year or at such
other times as it may direct, a certificate of audit by an accountant approved by the Board as to‐
(a) 	the correctness of all the books and records required by or under this Act to be kept by the 	holder
of the licence; and
(b) 	any matter necessary to implement the provisions of any of the excise laws,
and the holder of a licence who without reasonable excuse fails to supply a certificate of audit when required, shall
be liable on summary conviction to a fine of two hundred naira.
(4) For the purpose of this section, "accountant approved by the Board" means an accountant who is a member of
one of the professional bodies for the time being declared by the Board, by notice in the Federal Gazette, to be
approved for such purposes, but does not include any such member if he is the holder of a licence under this Act or
is employed by any such holder.
22. Unlawful assumption of office
If, for any of the purposes incidental to the control of distillation under this Act, any person without lawful
authority assumes the name, designation or character of an officer he shall, in addition to any other punishment,
be liable on conviction to a fine of not less than four hundred naira or more than one thousand naira, or to
imprisonment for a term of two years, or to both.
23. Officers to have powers of police officers
For the avoidance of doubt, officers acting under this Act shall have the same powers, authorities and privileges as
are given by law to police officers.
24. Offences as to concealing, etc., of spirits on licensed premises
If any person‐
(a) 	conceals any spirits on premises mentioned in a distiller's licence; or
(b) 	without the consent of the proper officer removes any spirits from such premises; or
(c) 	knowingly buys or receives any spirits so concealed or removed; or
(d) 	knowingly possesses, buys, or receives any spirits removed from such premises before duty (if
any) has been charged and, as the case may be, paid or secured,

-- 12 of 44 --

the spirits shall be liable to forfeiture; and such person shall on conviction be liable to a fine of six times the value
of the goods or to four hundred naira, whichever is the greater, or to imprisonment for two years, or to both.
25. Condemnation proceedings
(1) Where, in any proceedings for the condemnation of any thing seized as liable to forfeiture under this Act,
judgment is given for the claimant, the court before which the case is heard may, if it sees fit, certify that there
were reasonable grounds for the seizure.
(2) Where any proceedings, whether civil or criminal, are brought against the Board or any person authorised by or
under this Act to seize or detain anything liable to forfeiture on account of the seizure or detention or anything,
and judgment is given for the plaintiff or prosecutor, then if‐
(a) 	a certificate relative to the seizure has been granted under
subsection (1) of this section; or
(b) 	the court is satisfied that there were reasonable grounds for seizing or detaining that
thing under the excise laws,
the plaintiff or prosecutor shall not be entitled to recover any damages or costs and the defendant shall not be
liable to any punishment:
Provided that nothing in this subsection or in the next succeeding section shall affect the right of any person to the
return of the thing seized or detained or to compensation in respect of any damage to the thing or in respect of
the destruction thereof.
(3) Any certificate under subsection (1) of this section may be approved by the production of either the
original certificate or a certified copy thereof purporting to be signed by any officer of the court by which it was
granted.
26. Compensation in special cases
(1) Where any spirits on the premises of the holder of a licence under this Act are destroyed, stolen or
unlawfully removed by or with assistance or connivance of an officer, and that officer is convinced of the offence,
the Board shall, if the licensee was not a party to the offence, pay compensation for any loss caused by any such
destruction, theft or removal; and it is hereby declared that in any such case no duty shall be payable on any such
spirits by the licensee, and duty (if any) paid thereon by the licensee shall be refunded.
(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (1) of this section, compensation shall not be payable by the
Board, and no action shall lie against the Board or any officer for any loss or damage caused to any goods by any
officer acting in the execution of his duty except where the loss or the damage occurs as the direct result of the
unlawful act or negligence of such officer or arises out of any unsuccessful search to which subsection (2) of
section 9 of this Act applies.
27. Interpretation
In this Act unless the context otherwise requires‐
"Board" means the Nigerian Customs Service Board;

-- 13 of 44 --

"distiller's licence" means a licence to distil spirits granted under section 1 of this Act;
"excise laws" means the Customs and Excise Management Act, and includes any other Act relating to the
control of excisable goods;
[Cap. C45.]
"officer" means any person employed in the Nigerian Customs Service, or for the time being performing
customs or excise duties;
"proper officer" means any officer whose right or duty it is to require the performance of or do an act;
"pure alcohol" means spirits by volume at fifteen point five six degrees Centigrade or sixty degrees
Fahrenheit;
"spirits" means ethyl alcohol and includes all liquors mixed with or compounded with or prepared from
ethyl alcohol, but does not include undistilled fermented liquors containing twenty per centum or less of pure
ethyl alcohol;
"still" means any apparatus used or capable of being used to produce spirits by distillation;
"still licence" means a licence granted for the purposes of section 2 of this Act.
28. Repeals, etc.
(1) The enactment mentioned in Part A of the Third Schedule to this Act is hereby repealed to the extent
therein specified.
[Part A.]
(2) Whereby any enactment reference is made to excise legislation in relation to spirits or to distillation of
spirits in Nigeria, the spirits and any equipment shall, for excise purposes, be deemed to be affected by this Act;
and references shall be so construed, and the enactments mentioned in Part B of the Third Schedule to this Act
shall have effect accordingly.
[Part B.]
(3) Any law in force in any State, other than an enactment repealed by subsection (1) of this section, or a
provision of the Customs and Excise Management Act, or of an instrument having effect by virtue of that Act, is
hereby repealed in so far as it makes provision with respect to the importation of stills.
[Cap. C45.]
29. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Excise (Control of Distillation) Act.
_____________