1. 	Powers of the Court
(1) The Federal High Court (in this Act referred to as "the Court") shall have power to‐
[1999 No. 62.]

-- 2 of 27 --

(a) 	recover, in accordance with the provisions of this Act, the debts owed to a failed bank, arising in
the ordinary course of business and which remain outstanding as at the date the bank is closed or declared a failed
bank by the Central Bank of Nigeria;
(b) 	try the offences specified in Part III of this Act;
(c) 	try the offences specified in the Banks and Other Financial Institutions Act and the Nigerian
Deposit Insurance Corporation Act; and
[Cap. B3. Cap. N102.]
(d) 	try other offences relating to the business or operation of a bank under any enactment.
(2) The Court shall exercise exclusive jurisdiction over all ancillary matters, including remand, bail and any
other preliminary issues connected with an offence or hearing over which the Court has jurisdiction.
(3) The Court shall, in the exercise of its powers under this Act‐
(a) 	conduct its proceedings in such manner as to avoid undue delay;
(b) 	lift the corporate veil of a body corporate, where it is necessary for the purpose of revealing its
members who may be‐
(i) 	guilty of an offence under this Act; or
(ii) 	liable, jointly or severally, for the debts owed by the corporate body
to a failed bank;
(c) 	subject to this Act, adopt its own procedure, where expedient, to ensure speedy determination
of cases before it.
(4) The Court shall have power to admit and act on any evidence which it considers relevant in any civil or
criminal proceedings notwithstanding that the evidence is inadmissible under any other law or enactment.
[1995 No. 18. 1999 No. 62.]
2. Power of search, etc.
Notwithstanding the provisions of any other enactment conferring power to search, if the Court is
satisfied that there is a reasonable ground to suspect that there may be found in any building or other place
whatsoever, any money or other property or any book, record, account, statement or information in any other
form whatsoever which, in its opinion, is or may be material to the subject‐matter of any trial under this Act, it
may issue a warrant authorising any police officer or any member of the armed forces or of any of the security
agencies to‐
(a) 	enter, if necessary by force, the building or other place and every part thereof; and
(b) 	search for, seize and remove any money, other property, book, record accounts, statement or
information found therein.
3. 	Power to control property of debtor or accused

-- 3 of 27 --

(1) Where at any stage of a hearing or trial, the Court is satisfied that a prima facie case has been made
out against a person, the Court may by order and for such time as it may direct or require‐
(a) 	prohibit any disposition of property, movable or immovable, by or on behalf of that person,
whether or not the property is owned or held by that person or by any other person on his behalf, except to such
extent and in such manner as may be specified in the order;
(b) 	addressed to the manager of the bank or to the head office of the bank where the person has an
account or is believed to have an account, direct the manager or the bank to‐
(i) 	stop all outward payments, operations or transactions (including any bill of exchange)
for the time specified in the order;
(ii) 	supply any information and produce books and documents, in respect of the account of
that person; and
(c) 	where necessary or expedient, vest in the Court or otherwise acquire the custody of any
property, movable or immovable, of the person for the preservation of the property pending the determination of
the proceedings.
(2) An order under subsection (1) of this section shall have effect as specified therein, but any such order may at
any time thereafter be varied or annulled by the Court.
(3) Failure to comply with the requirement of an order under this section shall be an offence punishable on
conviction‐
(a) 	in the case of an individual, by imprisonment for a term of not less than two years or more than
five years without the option of a fine;
(b) 	in the case of any group of persons not being a body corporate, by the like punishment of each of
such persons as is prescribed in paragraph (a) of this subsection;
(c) 	in the case of a body corporate by a fine of an amount equal to two times the estimated value of
the property affected by the non‐compliance or N100,000 whichever is higher.
4. 	Jurisdiction unaffected by separation from service
The jurisdiction or authority of the Court shall not be affected by the fact that a person charged or
brought before the Court for trial or hearing‐
(a) 	has resigned or retired from the bank; or
(b) 	has had his appointment terminated in the bank; or
(c) 	has otherwise left the employment of the bank; or
(d) 	withdrew his participation from a merger, take‐over or the closing of a bank, if the loan, advance,
guarantee or any other credit facility, which is the subject matter of the proceeding before the Court is outstanding
on the commencement of the merger, take‐over or closing of the bank.

-- 4 of 27 --

PART II
Recovery of debts owed to failed banks
5. Recovery of debt owed to failed banks
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any law, deed, agreement or memorandum of
understanding, the Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction to hear and determine all matters brought before it
concerning the recovery from any person of any debt owed to a failed bank, which remains outstanding as at the
date of closure of the business of the failed bank.
6. Proof of debt
In addition to any other primary source of evidence‐
(a) 	the examination reports and recommendations of the Central Bank of Nigeria or the Nigeria
Deposit Insurance Corporation or their joint examination reports and recommendations; or
(b) 	any report of the Central Bank of Nigeria or the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation; or
(c) 	the report of a person appointed by the Central Bank of Nigeria or the Nigerian Deposit
Insurance Corporation,
on the financial condition of a failed bank shall be sufficient proof that a loan or advance is owed to a failed bank
and is due for recovery under this Act.
7. 	Application for recovery of debt
(1) An application for the recovery of a debt owed to a failed bank shall be brought before the Court by
the Receiver or Liquidator of the failed bank and where there is no Receiver or Liquidator, by a person appointed
by the Central Bank of Nigeria or the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation. [Form A.]
(2) The application referred to in subsection (1) of this section shall contain the following, that is‐
(a) 	the name and address of the borrower;
(b) 	if the borrower is a body corporate, a partnership or a sole trade‐
(i) 	the address of its principal place of business;
(ii) 	the names and addresses of its shareholders, directors, proprietors or
partners, as the case may be;
(c) 	the amount of loan and advance outstanding;
(d) 	details of securities pledged, if any; and
(e) 	such other information as may be useful to the Court.

-- 5 of 27 --

(3) 	An application may be brought against a debtor under this section and the Court shall proceed to hear the
application in accordance with the provisions of this Act, notwithstanding that a criminal proceeding is pending
against the debtor in respect of the same matter.
8. 	Debtor to appear before Court to show cause
(1) The Court shall on the return date and on receipt of a reply to the notice of an application made under
section 11 (1) of this Act, if the debtor admits the debt, enter judgment and ask the debtor or appear before it to
show cause why the Court should not invoke its powers under this Act to recover the outstanding debt.
(2) The Court shall, if satisfied with the explanation of the debtor, give the debtor not later than 30 days
to pay to the Receiver or Liquidator the outstanding loan and interest thereon.
(3) If a debtor pays the outstanding loan and interest within the period specified under subsection (2) of
this section, the Court shall‐
(a) 	issue to the debtor a certificate of clearance; and
[Form F.]
(b) 	order that all the documents and properties pledged as security for the loan be
released to the debtor.
[Form G.]
9. 	Hearing and judgment
(1) If the debtor‐
(a) 	at the expiration of the period specified under section 7 (1) of this Act, fails to repay all
the outstanding loan and interest; or
(b) 	disputes the loan or interest,
the Court shall proceed to hear the case and enter judgment and make such order as it deems appropriate for the
purposes of this part of this Act.
(2) Where the Court makes an order for the payment of the loan and interest and the debtor fails to
comply within the time specified in the order, the Court shall make an order to levy execution on all the properties
of the debtor pledged as security for the loan.
10. Withdrawal of application
A Receiver or Liquidator may, with leave of the Court at any time before judgment is entered, withdraw
an application made under section 11 (1) of this Act.
[Form H.]
11. Sale of property

-- 6 of 27 --

(1) A property against which an order is made under section 8 (2) of this Act shall, with the concurrence of
the Receiver or Liquidator, be sold by auction or by private contract and the money obtained from the sale shall be
applied in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(2) Where a property is sold under subsection (1) of this section, the Court shall execute an instrument to
transfer, conveyor assign the property to the purchaser or in any other way vest the property in the purchaser.
(3) An instrument executed under subsection (2) of this section shall be conclusive proof of title of the
purchaser and shall, where necessary, be a registrable instrument under the various registration laws, without the
consent required under sections 21, 22 and 26 of the Land Use Act.
[Cap. L5.]
(4) Any money obtained from the sale of properties under subsection (1) of this section shall, within two
weeks from the date of sale, be paid to the Receiver or Liquidator of the failed bank after all the recovery expenses
have been deducted.
(5) If the money obtained from the sale under subsection (1) of this section is not sufficient to offset the
outstanding loan and interest thereon, the Court may, where the debtor‐
(a) 	is an individual, levy execution on the other properties of the debtor;
(b) 	is a body corporate, partnership or other association of individuals, notwithstanding anything to
the contrary in the Companies and Allied Matters Act or any other law for the time being in force, levy execution
on the other properties of the body corporate, partnership or association of individuals.
[Cap. C20.]
(6) Where the Court levies execution under subsection (5) of this section, the properties shall be sold as
specified in subsection (1) of this section and the provisions of subsections (2), (3) and (4) of this section shall apply
to the sale and money obtained from the sale.
(7) If the money obtained from the sale of properties under subsection (6) of this section is still not
sufficient to offset the outstanding loan and interest thereon, the Court may, subject to section 290 of the
Companies and Allied Matters Act, levy execution on the personal properties of the directors of the body
corporate, partners of the partnership or individuals of the as
sociation, as the case may be, which shall be sold and applied in satisfaction of the outstanding debts, in
accordance with the provisions of his section.
12. Inadequate securities, etc.
(1) Where‐
(a) 	the information and details on the security pledged for the loan and filed before the Court is
impossible to locate; or
(b) 	no security is pledged at all; or
(c) 	the identify of the debtor is difficult to locate; or

-- 7 of 27 --

(d) 	the debtor is found to be non‐existent, fake or fictitious or in any way unidentifiable,
the Court shall hold liable, for the outstanding loan and interest thereon, the directors, shareholders, partners,
managers, officers and other employees of the failed bank who in the performance of their duties were found to
have been connected in any way with the granting of the loan which has become irrecoverable.
(2) The Court shall proceed to recover from the person referred to in subsection (1) of this section, jointly
and severally the outstanding loan and interest thereon in accordance with the provisions of this Act, unless the
Court is satisfied that the debt was incurred with the consent of the director, partner, shareholder, manager,
officer or employee and that he exercised all such diligence as he ought to have exercised having regard to the
nature of his functions and all the circumstances of the case.
13. Exclusion of statutes of limitation
The provisions of the Limitation Law of a State or Limitation Act of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja
shall not apply to matters brought before the Court under this Part of this Act.
14. Rules of procedure, etc.
The rules of procedure to be adopted in civil matters before the Court under this Act shall be as set out in the