1. 	Minister to control, etc., Federal Highways
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, all Federal highways shall on the commencement of this Act, be under the
management, direction and control of the Minister charged with responsibility for roads (in this Act referred to as
"the Minister").
(2) The Minister shall have responsibility‐
(a) 	for the planning (including research and designing) of Federal highways;
(b) 	for their construction and maintenance;
(c) 	for the supervision of users thereof; and
(d) 	for the regulation of traffic thereon.

-- 2 of 37 --

(3) The Federal government may, subject to the provisions of this Act, delegate to the government of a State in
respect of traffic on Federal highways all or any of the powers in subsection (5) of this section as may be expedient
in the circumstances; and such powers may further be delegated by the government of a State to any local
government within that State.
(4) Where any power is delegated pursuant to subsection (3) of this section, it shall be additional to and not in
derogation of any other power of the police in respect of road traffic, and the power may accordingly be sub‐
delegated to and be exercised by any police officer.
(5) The powers referred to in subsection (3) of this section, are‐
(a) restriction on type or class of vehicle and vehicle inspection;
(b) road diversion or closure where necessary as a temporary measure;
(c) prohibition of parking or waiting as the case may be on Federal highways or on specific parking or waiting
places and on space reasonably required for vehicles approaching or leaving premises on or immediately adjoining
a Federal highway;
(d) prohibition of erection of hoardings and other forms of advertising within a distance of three hundred feet
from the middle line of any road formation in the vicinity of a Federal highway or within the distance aforesaid
from the middle line of the Federal highway;
(e) generally ensuring the uninterrupted flow of vehicular and pedestrian traffic. (6) Penalties prescribed for the
infringement of any regulations made by the Minister under the power conferred by this Act shall, apply and have
effect in respect of powers delegated under and for the purposes of this section, to the like extent as if the
regulations had been made contemporaneously with the operation of any such delegation as aforesaid under this
section and had so provided.
2. 	Power to erect toll gates, etc.
(1) The Minister shall have power to erect, equip and maintain toll gates on any Federal highway as and when
required, with the approval of the President.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1) of this section, the Minister may prescribe such fees, dues
or charges that may be payable at any toll gate erected, equipped or maintained pursuant to subsection (1) of this
section.
(3) In the exercise of the powers conferred upon the Minister by subsection (2) of this section, the Minister may
classify the categories of vehicles plying or passing through any toll gate covered by the provisions of this Act and
the amount payable by such category of vehicles.
(4) The Minister may authorise in writing any officer, agent or person to exercise any of the powers conferred
upon him by subsections (1), (2) and (3) of this section.
(5) The Minister may make such order which may be published in the Federal Gazette or issue such notice as he
may deem necessary in respect of fees, dues and charges payable under this Act.
(6) For the purposes of this Act "vehicle" includes motorcycle.

-- 3 of 37 --

(7) Any person who wilfully‐
(a) prevents or obstructs any authorised officer, agent or person in the performance of his function under this Act;
or
(b) fails to pay to any officer, agent or person empowered to collect any fees, dues or charges payable under this
Act; or
(c) withholds any fees, dues or charges paid under this Act; or
(d) does any other fraudulent act or thing relating to the issue of receipts or collection of fees, dues or charges
under this Act,
shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding N10,000 or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding five years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(8) Any person who commits any offence punishable under subsection (7) of this section shall be tried at the
Federal High Court.
(9) Where under this section any power is delegated and in relation thereto an act or omission is an offence under
this Act and also an offence under any road traffic enactment in force in a State, the provisions of this Act as to
offences shall prevail so however that where before the coming into force of this Act proceedings commenced in
respect of an act or omission which is an offence under a road traffic enactment in a State and the penalty
prescribed differs from any prescribed for the like offence hereunder, any prosecution may, if the case has not
been disposed of on the commencement of this Act, be continued as if this Act had not been made.
3. 	Power to acquire land for Federal highway
(1) The Federal Government may in consultation with the government of the State concerned, from time to time in
such manner as it may prescribe, acquire land for the purposes of this Act and when so acquired such land shall be
deemed to be a Federal highway within the meaning of this Act; and such land may be disposed of in accordance
with the law of the area concerned; in this subsection, the reference to land includes reference to a road, other
than a Federal highway, formed on land.
(2) Except in respect of roads which are deemed to be Federal highways, compensation shall be paid pursuant to
the Land Use Act, for land acquired under subsection (1) of this section after the commencement of this Act.
[Cap. L5.]
(3) Where land at the commencement of this Act or at any time thereafter is part of a Federal highway, the
ownership shall include not only the surface but also the subsoil to an indeterminable depth; and user adverse to
that as a Federal highway shall operate in favour of level crossings constructed by the Nigerian Railway
Corporation and then only where a train or engine is approaching and within half a mile of a level crossing.
(4) It is declared for the avoidance of doubt that in the application of this section, an acquisition of land for the
purposes of this Act shall be for a public purpose of the Federation within the meaning of the Land Use Act.
(5) The acquisition of land for the purposes of this Act includes the right to obtain control over the land and to use
the land for the erection of buildings and for the supervision of the user by the public.

-- 4 of 37 --

4. 	Drainage and other works
(1) The Minister may in the performance of his duties under this Act make and thereafter maintain in respect of
any Federal highway, convenient decking and drainage work for the purpose of making good any interruptions
caused to the use of the lands of adjoining owners or occupiers through which such Federal highway passes or is
made, or of diverting storm or other water from a Federal highway.
(2) For all or any of the purposes in subsection (1) of this section, the Minister may enter upon land adjoining the
Federal highway subject to the giving of reasonable notice to owners or occupiers and doing as little damage as
possible through such entry or exit after entry; and in the course thereof the Minister may block up, divert or alter
the level or course of water flowing in defined channels, natural or artificial, or otherwise contained by any means.
(3) Nothing in this section shall require the Minister to provide convenient decking or drainage work‐
(a) 	where the owners or occupiers have failed to make representations during the time that the
section of the Federal highway affected, adjoining or passing through their land was in course of
construction; or
(b) 	where owners or, as the case may be, occupiers of the adjoining land have agreed to receive and
have been paid compensation; or
(c) 	where decking and drainage work provided by the Minister is thereafter diverted or altered
otherwise than by the Minister.
(4) In the exercise of his power under this section, the Minister may require any person having apparent control
over the location of any pipe, electric wire or post to alter the level or position thereof as the case may require
after reasonable notice of the requirement has been duly given; and the Minister shall in the course of road works
generally cause as little inconvenience as possible to persons affected.
(5) The failure to comply with the requirement of the Minister directed or given to any person under this section
shall be an offence punishable on conviction by a fine of not less than N100 or more than N200 or by
imprisonment for a term of three months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(6) In this section, "convenient" in relation to decking and drainage works, means of use or benefit to road users or
as the case may be adjoining owners or occupiers.
Offences
5. Causing death by reckless or dangerous driving
Any person who causes the death of another person by the driving of a motor vehicle on a Federal highway
recklessly, or at a speed or in a manner which is dangerous to the public, having regard to all the circumstances of
the case, including the nature, condition and use of the Federal highway, and the amount of traffic which is
actually at the time, or which might reasonably be expected to be, on the Federal highway, shall be guilty of an
offence and liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of seven years.
6. 	Reckless, etc., driving on Federal highway
(1) Any person who drives a motor vehicle on a Federal highway recklessly or negligently, or at a speed or in a
manner which is dangerous to the public, having regard to all the circumstances of the case including the state,

-- 5 of 37 --

condition, and use of that highway, and to the amount of traffic which at the time is or might reasonably be
expected to be on that highway shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of four hundred naira
or to imprisonment for two years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) If upon the trial of a person for an offence under section 4 of this Act, the court is not satisfied that the person's
driving was the cause of the death but is satisfied that he is guilty of driving as mentioned in subsection (1) of this
section, the court may convict that person of an offence under this section.
7. 	Careless and inconsiderate driving
(1) Any person who drives a motor vehicle on a Federal highway without due care and attention, or without
reasonable consideration for other persons using the Federal highway shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on
conviction to a fine of one hundred naira or in the case of a second subsequent conviction, to a fine of two
hundred naira or to imprisonment for six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) Where a person is charged with an offence under section 6 of this Act and the court is of the opinion that the
offence is not proved, then at any time during the hearing or immediately thereafter the court may, without
prejudice to any other power exercisable by the court, direct or allow a charge for an offence under this section to
be preferred forthwith against that person and may thereupon proceed with that charge, so however that the
person charged or his counsel shall be informed of the new charge and be given an opportunity, whether by way of
cross‐examining any witness whose evidence has already been given against him or otherwise, of answering the
new charge, and the court shall if it considers that he is prejudiced in his defence by reason of the new charge
being so preferred, adjourn the hearing.
8. 	Driving under influence of drink: power to disqualify from driving in certain cases
(1) Any person who when driving or attempting to drive, or when in charge of a motor vehicle on a Federal
highway is under the influence of drink or drugs to such an extent as to be incapable of having proper control of
such vehicle, shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of four hundred naira or to
imprisonment for two years, or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) If a person is convicted under this section or under section 4, 5 or 6 of this Act he shall, unless the court for any
special reason otherwise orders, be disqualified for a period of twelve months or if the court thinks fit, for any
greater period (from the date of the conviction) from holding or obtaining a driving licence.
9. Power of arrest in certain cases
A police officer may arrest without warrant the driver of a motor vehicle on a Federal highway who within his view
commits an offence under section 5,6, 7 or 8 of this Act, unless the driver either produces his licence to drive or
produces other evidence of his identity acceptable to the police officer.
10. Drivers of motor vehicles to have driving licences
(1) A person shall not drive on a Federal highway a motor vehicle of any class or description unless, he is the holder
of a valid licence authorising him to drive a motor vehicle of that class or description.
(2) A person shall not employ another person to drive on a Federal highway a motor vehicle of any class or
description unless, the person employed is the holder of a valid licence authorising the person employed to drive a
motor vehicle ofthat class or description.

-- 6 of 37 --

(3) A person who acts in contravention of subsection (1) or (2) of this section shall be guilty of an offence and liable
on conviction to a fine of one hundred naira or in the case of a second or subsequent offence to a fine of two
hundred naira or to imprisonment for six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
11. Offences relating to licences and identification marks
(1) Any person who for purposes incidental to user on a Federal highway (and whether or not so used)‐
(a) 	forges, or fraudulently defaces, alters, adds to or multilates, any driving or vehicle
licence or identification mark;
(b) 	exhibits or uses any driving or vehicle licence, or identification mark which has been
forged or defaced;
(c) 	lends or allows to be used by any other person any such licence as aforesaid or
identification mark pertaining to another vehicle; or
(d) 	uses a driving licence belonging to another person or exhibits or uses on a vehicle any licence
upon which figures or particulars have become illegible, or exhibits or uses on a vehicle any
colourable imitation of a licence to which he is not entitled,
shall be guilty of an offence.
(2) Any person who drives on a Federal highway a motor vehicle required to bear a prescribed identification mark
without that identification mark or with a false identification mark shall be guilty of an offence.
(3) In this section the burden of proof of any absence of intent to commit an offence shall lie upon the person
charged therewith.
12. Driving without authority of owner of motor vehicle
Any person who on a Federal highway drives a motor vehicle on any occasion without the authority express or
implied of the owner shall, be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of N100 or to imprisonment for
six months, or to both such fine and imprisonment.
13. Failure to report accidents
(1) Where an accident occurs on a Federal highway by reason of the use of a motor vehicle or trailer and injury is
caused to any person, property, or livestock in the charge of any person, the driver of the motor vehicle shall‐
(a) 	immediately stop the vehicle;
(b) 	when requested so to do furnish his name and address, the name and address of the owner of
the vehicle, the identification mark of the vehicle, and other particulars relating thereto to any
person to whom or to the owner or person in charge of the property or of the livestock to which,
the injury or other damage has been caused, or to any police officer;
(c) 	if the person injured so requests, (and in case that person is unconscious or the injury caused to
that person appears to endanger life) do all things reasonably practicable to attend to the injured
person so as to procure for him medical attention and, where necessary, his removal 	to a

-- 7 of 37 --

hospital, and the driver aforesaid shall report the accident as early as possible to the nearest
police station; and
(d) 	where a case is not within paragraph (c) of this subsection, report the accident as soon as
possible (not later in any event than 24 hours from the time when the accident occurred) to the
nearest police station.
(2) Any person who fails to comply with any of the requirements of subsection (1) of this section shall be guilty of
an offence under this Act.
14. Failure to supply, etc., information lawfully demanded
(1) Any person suspected of having committed an offence under this Act, and who refuses without lawful excuse to
give a police officer his name and address or such other information that may reasonably be demanded of him by
the police officer, or who gives a false name or address or false information, shall be guilty of an offence.
(2) The owner and any other person in control or apparent control of a vehicle or of any animals on a Federal
highway shall on lawful demand by a police officer, give to that officer information which the owner or other
person aforesaid may have concerning any offence involving the use of the vehicle or the driving of animals on the
Federal highway at the time of the offence, and the failure to comply with any such lawful demand shall itself be
an offence under this Act.
15. Overloading or driving a vehicle in an unsafe condition
Where on a Federal highway an offence relating to the overloading of a commercial vehicle or of driving a
commercial vehicle in an unsafe condition or at a speed exceeding that prescribed by law is committed, the
persons liable to conviction in respect of the offence shall be‐
(a) 	the driver;
(b) 	the owner if not also the driver; and
(c) 	a bailee if not also the driver,
so however that proceedings against any person as owner or bailee under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section shall
not be instituted without the approval of the Attorney‐General of the Federation, and it shall be a good defence to
a prosecution if the owner or bailee as aforesaid, proves to the satisfaction of the court that no act or omission on
his part was conducive to the commission of the offence.
16. Use of motor vehicle for purposes other than licensed
Any person who uses a motor vehicle for a purpose other than that for which it is licensed shall be guilty of an
offence; and save in the case of driving without a licence (in respect of which a different penalty may be imposed)
nothing in this Act shall affect or diminish the liability of the driver or, as the case may be, the owner or bailee of
the vehicle or as a driver under any other enactment or rule of law.
17. Offences in respect of which penalties are not elsewhere prescribed
Where in respect of an offence under this Act no penalty is prescribed, the court convicting may in the case of a
first offence, impose a penalty by way of fine of two hundred naira or of imprisonment for a term of twelve

-- 8 of 37 --

months or both, and in respect of a second or any subsequent offence (whether of the same kind or not) the
penalty shall be imprisonment for a term of eighteen months without the option of a fine unless the court
otherwise considers that a fine will be appropriate in the circumstances.
18. Power of police officer to retain driving licence, etc.
(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, if a police officer is of the opinion on reasonable grounds that
there may be difficulty in effecting service of a summons, he may demand and retain the driving licence of any
person who commits or is suspected by him of having committed an offence under this Act.
(2) Where a driving licence is retained, whether or not pursuant to this section, the police officer retaining the
licence shall give a written receipt for it and inform the person surrendering the licence of the name of the police
station at which it may be reclaimed.
(3) If a summons in respect of an offence under this Act is served on the person whose driving licence is retained
by the police or that person appears personally at the nominated police station not later than three days after
retention of the driving licence, he may have it returned to him upon giving to the police a receipt therefore, duly
signed and dated by him.
19. Power to nominate driver of vehicle in public service, etc.
Notwithstanding the provisions of any other enactment or rule of law, where in respect of vehicles used in the
public services of the federation or of a State an offence under this Act is committed on a Federal highway, the
Ministry or other department of State in whose service (Federal or otherwise) the vehicle is used, may nominate
an official as the person responsible for the offence, and that person shall be deemed to be the person actually
liable therefor unless the court hearing the charge is satisfied that the driver of the vehicle was in fact the person
guilty of the offence.
20. Recovery of expenses incurred consequent upon damage to federal highways
(1) Where any structural damage to any part of a Federal highway, or to the information of or to any decking or
drainage work as part of a Federal highway, has been caused by any person whether or not that person has been
charged with an offence causing such damage or with any other offence under this Act (or under any other
enactment or law), the Minister shall recover the cost of making good such damage from the person causing or
responsible for the damage, the owner or driver of the motor vehicle or thing that caused such damage, or all of
them, jointly or, in the case of an exempt vehicle, from any of the persons aforesaid.
(2) Where damage is caused as aforesaid, the Director or any person acting under his authority shall, with the
assistance of a police officer seize the motor vehicle or thing involved in the damage, or cause it to be seized, and
remove same to any premises under the control of the Federal Government or the government of a State, and may
for such purpose use such force as may be reasonably necessary for the seizure or removal, or for gaining access to
it or any part thereof in order to facilitate its seizure or removal.
(3) The cost of making good the damage shall be assessed and certified in writing by the Director, who shall
immediately thereafter serve the certificate of such assessment on the person to whom subsection (1) of this
section relates; and the certificate shall contain a demand notice for the payment of the cost (as thus certified)
into the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the Federation.

-- 9 of 37 --

(4) The certificate of the Director shall be conclusive evidence of the cost of making good the damage, and the
amount as thus certified shall be a debt due to the Federal Government and shall, subject to the provisions of this
section be recoverable as such.
(5) Any vehicle or thing seized pursuant to subsection (2) of this section, shall be detained in the said premises until
the amount of the cost of making good the damage as certified under subsection (3) of this section, has been paid
in the manner specified in the said subsection (3) or until disposal thereof in pursuance of subsection (6) of this
section.
(6) The Minister may by regulations provide for the maintenance of places to which such vehicle or thing may be
removed and such suitable facilities as may be necessary for its safe custody, and may also by regulations,
prescribe the procedure for reclaiming it and for its disposal by sale or otherwise:
Provided that where a sale is made pursuant to this subsection and‐
(a) 	the sum realised exceeds the sum stated in the certificate, the excess sum shall be
refunded to the owner of the vehicle or thing;
(b) 	the sum stated on the certificate exceeds the sum realised, the outstanding sum shall be
recoverable from the person responsible for the damage,
and where a sale is so made, the Minister or any person acting on his behalf shall ensure that the best price
available is obtained for the vehicle or thing, as the case may be.
(7) The foregoing provisions of this section are in addition to and not in derogation of any penalty for offences that
may be imposed on the conviction of any person for any offence under this Act or under any other enactment or
law, and the provisions of this Act shall apply‐
(a) 	where more than one motor vehicle or thing is involved in the damage so caused;
(b) 	notwithstanding that any civil action or suit has been commenced or instituted or is
contemplated by or against any person; and
(c) 	whether or not the person on whom the certificate of assessment of damage is served in
accordance with subsection (3) of this section is the person charged with causing the damage or
proved to have caused the damage or to have been guilty of any offence under this Act or under
any other enactment or law:
Provided that where negligence leading to the damage is attributable wholly or substantially to a person, that
person shall be proceeded against to the exclusion of other persons contributing to the damage.
(8) The foregoing provisions of this section are without prejudice to the right of any person claiming to be innocent
of the damage to recover from any other person through the due process of the law, the amount which he had
paid pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this section.
(9) In this section‐
"the Director" means‐
(a) 	the Director of Federal Public Works in the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing; or

-- 10 of 37 --

(b) 	any State director of public works (however designated) to whom the powers of the Director of
Federal Public Works are delegated by the Minister by an order published in the Federal Gazette,
so however that any such delegation shall be without prejudice to the exercise by the Director of Federal Public
Works of his powers under this section;
"exempt vehicle" means any vehicle owned by or in the service of‐
(a) 	the Government of the Federation or a State;
(b) 	any local government (howsoever called) established under the provisions of any law in
force in any State;
(c) 	any person covered by the provisions of section 9 of the Diplomatic Immunities and Privileges
Act, and such other persons as may be exempted under the provisions of any other written law;
[Cap. D9.]
"vehicle or thing" includes, in appropriate cases, ships, boats, canoes and other water‐craft, and aircraft of all
descriptions.
Miscellaneous and supplemental
21. Powers incidental to intention to acquire land for Federal highway
(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, where it appears to the Minister that land in any locality is likely to be
needed for the purposes of a Federal highway, the Minister may in writing authorise any person to enter upon any
land in the locality for the purpose of surveying and taking necessary levels, and for that purpose the person so
authorised may‐
(a) 	dig into or bore under the subsoil and do all other acts necessary to ascertain whether
the land is suitable for use as a Federal highway; and
(b) 	clear and demarcate the boundaries of any such land.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) of this section, the Minister may for purposes of and
incidental to this Act surveyor otherwise demarcate in any State and thereafter layoff on a plan the middle line of a
Federal highway, and notice of such surveyor demarcation and laying off shall be published in the Federal Gazette,
and in the Gazette of any State affected or likely to be affected; if the middle line is so laid off, the Minister may
not later than twelve months thereafter, exercise his power under this section within a distance of 60.35 metres
on either side of such middle line.
(3) Nothing in this section shall authorise the Minister or any person authorised by him to enter into any building
or upon any enclosed court or garden attached to a dwelling house (except with the consent of the occupier
thereof) unless at least seven days' notice in writing of the intended entry has been given to such occupier.
(4) Compensation for damage done under this section shall in case of dispute as to amount be determined‐
(a) 	in the case of a customary land in the manner provided by the Land Use Act where a right of
occupancy is revoked; and

-- 11 of 37 --

[Cap. L5.]
(b) 	in any other case by a magistrate having jurisdiction in respect of the place where the land is
situated.
22. Powers relative to obstruction of view on Federal highways
(1) If trees are standing in a position likely in the opinion of the Minister to obstruct traffic in the event of falling on
a Federal highway or likely to obstruct the view of traffic using the Federal highway, any person duly authorised in
writing in that behalf by the Minister may enter on adjoining land to any necessary extent in order to fell or
otherwise remove or log the trees as circumstances may require,
(2) If the power conferred by subsection (1) of this section is exercised in respect of a tree on land other than a
Federal highway, compensation shall be payable to the owner only where the Federal highway was in use before
the tree became a potential source of obstruction, and the tree had at the time of its felling a marketable value; in
default of agreement under this subsection the amount shall be fixed by a competent person appointed for this
purpose by the Minister.
(3) An award of compensation fixed by agreement under subsection (2) of this section, shall be final, and a court
shall only entertain a suit to recover compensation for any trees felled or otherwise dealt with under this section
where the amount is fixed in default of agreement.
23. Power to enter adjacent land
The Minister or any person authorised by him in writing may in case of any slip or other accident happening or
being apprehended in any cutting, embarkment or other work under the Minister's control, enter upon any land
adjoining a Federal highway and do all work necessary to repair damage thereby occasioned and for the purpose
of prevention or control of slips likely to occur from adjoining land on to a Federal highway.
24. Power to acquire land under special enactments
Where land is acquired for the purposes of this Act pursuant to section 2 of this section‐
(a) 	under the Land Use Act;
[Cap. L5.]
(b) 	if the land is customary land within the meaning of the Land Use Act and a requisition in respect
of such land declares it to be required by the Federal Government for the public purposes of the
Federation,
the provisions of that enactment pertaining to such acquisition shall have effect accordingly, and the land shall
vest in the Minister without any further assurance.
25. Power to declare road to be Federal highway
The Minister after consultation with the government of the State concerned and with the approval of the
President may, by order published in the Federal Gazette, declare any road in Nigeria (not being a Federal trunk
road) to be a Federal highway, and may by the same or any other order and with the like approval, cancel, amend

-- 12 of 37 --

or vary any notice relating to Federal highways to which, on its commencement, this Act applies, or thereafter may
apply.
26. Application of Motor Vehicles (Third Party Insurance) Act to road users generally
(1) The operation of the Motor Vehicles (Third Party Insurance) Act hereafter in this section referred to as "the
Act" is hereby extended and that Act shall apply throughout the Federation, notwithstanding the provision of any
enactment (including the Act aforesaid) or any State Law or rule of law to the contrary; and the requirements of
the Act as to insurance against third party risks as set out therein and the issue and production of certificates of
insurance in respect thereof shall continue to have effect in all States of the Federation, and in particular the
provisions of the Act shall, in relation to any Federal highway within the meaning of this Act have effect as
modified by this Act, and shall stand amended to any extent necessary.
[Cap. M22.]
(2) Accordingly, the reference in the Act to "Lagos" shall be deleted and section 1 shall stand amended as from 31
August 1960 (being the date of commencement of the Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, etc., 1958).
(3) The provisions of any other enactment relating to road traffic having application within a State of the
Federation shall, on the commencement of this Act, be read and have effect in respect of traffic on federal
highways subject to this Act.
(4) In this section, the reference to an "enactment" includes a reference to an Act, and a Law of a State.
27. Regulations
(1) The Minister may by regulations make provisions generally for the regulation of the use of Federal highways
and for the management, direction and control of Federal highways and without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing provisions may make such regulations as appear to him to be necessary‐
(a) 	with respect to‐
(i) 	the speed at which motor vehicles of any class or description thereof may be driven
either generally on any specified Federal highway or within any defined area or place;
and
(ii) 	the registration and licensing of motor drivers and conductors, and also the
prescribing of fees and other matters relative thereto;
(b) 	with respect to the construction of motor vehicles and trailers and may in particular make
provisions with respect to the following matters‐
(i) 	the width, height and length of motor vehicles and trailers and the load carried
thereby, the diameter of wheels, and the width, nature and condition of tyres of
motor vehicles and trailers;
(ii) 	the consumption of smoke and the emission of visible vapour, sparks, ashes and
grits;
(iii) 	the excessive noise owing to the design or condition of a vehicle or the loading thereof;

-- 13 of 37 --

(iv) 	the maximum laden weight of motor vehicles and trailers, and the maximum 	weight
to be transmitted to the road or any specified area thereof by a motor vehicle or trailer of any
class or description or by any part or parts of such a vehicle 	or trailer in contact with the road,
and the conditions under which the weights 	may be required to be tested;
(v) 	the particulars to be marked on motor vehicles and trailers;
(vi) 	the towing of or drawing of vehicles by motor vehicles;
(vii) 	the number and nature of brakes, and any device for ensuring that brakes, silencers
and steering gear are efficient and kept in proper working order;
(viii) 	the appliances to be fitted for signalling the approach of a motor vehicle or 	enabling
the driver of a motor vehicle to become aware of the approach of another 	vehicle from the
rear, or for intimating any intended change of speed or direction of 	a motor vehicle, and the
use of such appliance, and for ensuring that they are efficient and kept in proper working order;
(ix) 	for prohibiting the use of appliances fitted to motor vehicles for signalling their
approach, being appliances for signalling by sound, at any time, or on or in any
specified part of a Federal highway;
(x) 	for the placing on or near a Federal highway of traffic signs conformable with
international standards and local requirements;
(xi) 	for the prohibition or control of advertising on Federal highways or within 30.48
metres of the formation;
(xii) 	for the exclusion of any class or classes of vehicles using or likely to use a Federal
highway and for vehicle inspection;
(xiii) 	for restricting the use of federal highways by any breed of animal;
(xiv) 	for the line to be kept on a Federal highway and the direction to be followed by
vehicles;
(xv) 	for road division or temporary closure of any part of a Federal highway;
(xvi) 	for the prohibition of parking or waiting on, or as the case may be, for prescribing
specified parking or waiting places, and the provision of space reasonably required
for vehicles approaching or leaving premises adjoining a Federal highway; and
(xvii) 	generally for the uninterrupted flow of vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
(2) Regulations may prescribe penalties for offences by way of fine not exceeding two hundred naira or by
imprisonment for a term not exceeding eighteen months or by both such fine and imprisonment.
28. Interpretation
(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires‐
"court" includes an area court;

-- 14 of 37 --

"decking and drainage work" includes the provision of approaches, culverts and other erections on a Federal
highway over or through water, and the making of drain and other water courses on or onto adjoining or adjacent
land;
"Federal highway" means trunk roads including any approaches thereto whether formed or not in relation to
which the Minister may exercise the powers conferred upon him by or under this Act, that is to say‐
(a) 	land acquired for the purposes of this Act and deemed to be a Federal highway under
section 2 of this Act;
(b) 	roads declared pursuant to section 25 of this Act to be Federal highways;
(c) 	Federal trunk roads within the context of item 63 of Part 1 of the Second Schedule to
the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999; and
[Cap. C23.]
(d) 	decking and drainage works on such land and roads;
"local authority" means with reference to an area, whether settled or not, a body with powers statutory or
customary, of local administration;
"Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibility for Federal highways;
"vehicle" includes any means of conveyance whatsoever which is provided with means of locomotion on a Federal
highway and used or intended to be used or capable of being used thereon for the carriage of persons or goods or
both, or is capable of being adapted to any purpose and used on a Federal highway.
(2) For the purposes of section 1 (3) of this section, the references to the Federal Government and the government
of a State are references to the President and the Governor of a State, respectively.
(3) For the purposes of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 land acquired under section 24 of
this Act and roads declared pursuant to section 25 of this Act shall be deemed to have been duly declared as
Federal trunk roads.
[Cap. C23.]
29. Short title
This Act may be cited as Federal Highways Ac
‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐‐
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS ACT