1. 	Creation of Federal Capital Territory for Nigeria
(1) There is hereby established a capital territory in and for the Federal Republic of
Nigeria to be designated as the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja (hereinafter referred to
as the "Federal Capital Territory").
(2) The Federal Capital Territory shall consist of the area described in Part II of the First
Schedule to this Act.
[First Schedule.]
(3) The area contained in the Capital Territory shall, as from the commencement of this
Act, cease to be a portion of the States concerned and shall henceforth be governed and
administered by or under the control of the Government of the Federation to the
exclusion of any other person or authority whatsoever and the ownership of the lands
comprised in the Federal Capital Territory shall likewise vest absolutely in the
Government of the Federation.
2. 	Boundaries to be better defined
(1) The boundaries of the Federal Capital Territory shall be accurately surveyed and
demarcated as soon as may be after the commencement of this Act by or on behalf of
the Federal Capital Development Authority and such boundaries of the area described in
Part II of the First Schedule to this Act.
(2) The President shall by order published in the Federal Gazette, define the boundaries
of the Federal Capital Territory by reference to the limits, distances and bearings
demarcated by the Authority which shall have carried out or caused to be carried out
the survey referred to in subsection (1) of this section, and forthwith thereafter,
references in this Act to the area described in the First Schedule shall be construed as
references to the area defined in that order.
[First Schedule.]
3. 	Establishment of Federal Capital Development Authority

-- 2 of 14 --

(1) There shall be established an authority to be known as the Federal Capital
Development Authority which shall consist of a chairman and eight other members to
be appointed by the President.
(2) The Authority shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common
seal.
4. 	Functions and powers of the Authority
(1) Subject to and in accordance with this Act, the Authority shall be charged with the
responsibility for‐
(a) 	the choice of site for the location of the Capital city within the
Capital Territory;
(b) 	the preparation of a master‐plan for the Capital city and of land
use with respect to town and country planning within the rest of the Capital
Territory;
(c) 	the provision of municipal services within the Federal Capital Territory;
(d) 	the establishment of infrastructural services in accordance with the
master‐plan referred to above; and
(e) 	the co‐ordination of the activities of all ministries, departments
and agencies of the Government of the Federation within the Federal Capital
Territory.
(2) Subject to other provisions of this Act, the Authority shall have power to do anything
which in its opinion is calculated to facilitate the carrying on of its activities, including,
without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, power‐
(a) 	to sue and be sued in its corporate name;
(b) 	to hold and manage movable and immovable property;
(c) 	to construct and maintain such roads, rail ways, sidings, tramways,
bridges, reservoirs, water courses, buildings, plant and machinery and such other works
as may be necessary for, or conducive to, the discharge of its functions under this Act;
(d) 	to purchase or otherwise acquire or take over any assets, business,
property, privilege, contract, right, obligation and liability of any person or body
(whether corporate or unincorporate) in furtherance of its activities;
(e) 	to enter into contracts or partnerships with any person or body
(whether corporate or unincorporated) which in the opinion of the Authority will
facilitate the discharge of its functions under this Act;
(f) 	to train managerial and technical staff for the purpose of the discharge
of functions conferred on it by or pursuant to this Act;
(g) 	to undertake such research as may be necessary for the performance
of its functions under this Act;
(h) 	to exercise such other powers as are necessary or expedient for giving
full effect to the provisions of this Act.

-- 3 of 14 --

(3) Except with the general or special approval of the President and as otherwise
prescribed by this Act, the Authority shall not have power to borrow money or to
dispose of any property.
5. 	Executive Secretary and other staff of the Authority
(1) There shall be appointed by the President an Executive Secretary to the Authority
who shall be the chief executive officer of the Authority and shall be responsible for the
day‐to‐day running of the affairs of the Authority.
(2) The Executive Secretary shall hold office on such terms as to emoluments and
otherwise as may be specified in his instrument of appointment.
(3) The Authority may appoint such other persons to be officers and servants of the
Authority as it may deem fit.
(4) The remuneration and tenure of office of the officers (other than the Executive
Secretary) and employees of the Authority shall be determined by the Authority after
consultation with the President.
6. 	Compensation payable
(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other enactment or by any srule of
law, compensation payable in respect of any land comprised in the Federal Capital
Territory shall be assessed and computed in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
(2) In computing compensation payable under this Act, account shall be taken of any
building or crops on the land acquired for the purpose of this Act, so however that any
compensation payable shall be as respects‐
(a) 	land affected by this Act, for an amount equal to the total rent paid by
the lessee over the period between the date of the execution of the lease and the date
of its determination by the Authority together with interest at the bank rate between
the last‐mentioned date and the date of payment of compensation;
(b) 	building on such land, for the amount of the actual cost of
construction of the building (less any depreciation) together with interest at the bank
rate over the period between the date of acquisition of such building and the date of
payment of compensation;
(c) 	crops on such land, for an amount equal to the fair market value of
such crops,
and the cost mentioned in the foregoing provisions of this subsection shall be such as
may be determined by the Authority.
(3) Any person who claims any right or interest in any land comprised in the Federal
Capital Territory shall submit, in writing, particulars of his claims to the Executive
Secretary on or before the expiration of twelve months from the date of
commencement of the order made under section 2 of this Act or such longer period as
the President may, either generally or in relation to any particular claim or claims,
prescribe by notice published in the Federal Gazette.
(4) No claim for compensation shall be entertained by the Authority unless a written
notice of the claim in accordance with subsection (3) of this section is served on the
Authority within the period specified in the said subsection.
7. 	Development without Authority's approval prohibited

-- 4 of 14 --

(1) As from the commencement of this Act, no person or body shall within the Federal
Capital Territory carry out any development within the meaning of this Act unless the
written approval of the Authority has been obtained by such person or body:
Provided that the Authority may make a general order with respect to the interim
development of the land within the Federal Capital Territory and may make special
orders with respect to the interim development of any portion of land within any
particular area.
(2) The Authority shall have power to require every person who, otherwise than in
pursuance of an approval granted or order made under subsection (1) of this section,
proceeds with or does any work within the Federal Capital Territory to remove any work
performed and reinstate the land or, where applicable, the building, in the condition in
which it was before the commencement of such work, and in the event of any failure on
the part of any such person to comply with any such requirement, the Authority shall
cause the necessary work to be carried out, and may recover the expenses thereof from
such person as a debt.
(3) In this section‐
"development" means the carrying out of any building, engineering, mining or other
operations in, on, over or under land or water, or the making of any material change in
the use of any land or buildings thereon or of any stretch of water whatsoever;
"interim development" means such temporary development as may be authorised by
the Authority of any land comprised in the Federal Capital Territory between the date of
commencement of this Act and the coming into operation of any of the Authority's
schemes of development for the particular portion of land.
8. 	Power to enter premises and obtain information
(1) For the purpose of the efficient discharge of the responsibilities of the Authority
under this Act, the Executive Secretary or any other officer or servant of the Authority
authorised in that behalf‐
(a) 	shall have a right of access at all times to any land or building within
the Federal Capital Territory for the purpose of ascertaining that the provisions of this
Act are not being contravened;
(b) 	may issue a notice calling upon any person whom he has reason to
believe is able to give any information respecting the ownership, possession or the
boundaries of land within the Federal Capital Territory or any part thereof, or in whose
possession or power any document relating to any such matter is alleged to be, to
attend before him and give such information or produce such document on a date and
at a place mentioned in the notice;
(c) 	may, by notice in writing served on any person carrying on an
industrial, commercial, educational or any other undertaking whatsoever, require that
person to furnish in such form as he may direct information on such matters as may be
specified by him.
(2) Any person required to furnish information pursuant to subsection (1) of this section,
shall within one month from the date of the notice comply with the notice.
9. 	Offences and penalty therefore

-- 5 of 14 --

(1) If any person required to furnish information pursuant to section 8 of this Act fails to
furnish the information as required under this Act, he shall be guilty of an offence.
(2) If a person in purported compliance with a requirement to furnish information as
aforesaid, knowingly or recklessly makes any statement in the return which is false in a
material particular, he shall be guilty of an offence.
(3) Any person who wilfully obstructs, interferes with, assaults or resists any officer or
servant of the Authority in the execution of his duty under this Act or who aids, incites,
induces or abets any other person so to do, shall be guilty of an offence.
(4) Any person found guilty of an offence under this Act shall be liable on conviction to a
fine of N500 or to imprisonment for six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
10. Offences by bodies corporate
Where an offence under this Act which has been committed by a body corporate is
proved to have been committed with the consent or connivance of, or to be attributable
to, any neglect on the part of any director, manager, secretary or other official of the
body corporate, or any person purporting to act in any such capacity, he as well as the
body corporate shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly.
11. Accounts and audit
(1) The Authority shall keep proper accounts and proper records in relation thereto and
shall prepare in respect of each financial year a statement of accounts in such form as it
may direct.
(2) The Authority shall as soon as may be after the end of the financial year to which the
accounts relate cause its accounts to be audited by auditors appointed from the list of
auditors and in accordance with guidelines prepared by the Auditor‐General for the
Federation.
(3) The auditors shall on completion of the audit of the accounts of the Authority for
each financial year prepare and submit to the Authority the following two reports, that
is to say‐
(a) 	a general report setting out the observations and recommendations of
the auditors on the financial affairs of the Authority generally for that year and on any
important matters which the auditors may consider necessary to bring to the notice of
the Authority; and
(b) 	a detailed report containing the observations and recommendations of
the auditors on all aspects of the operations of the Authority for that year.
12. Annual reports to President
The Authority shall prepare and submit to the Presidents not later than 30 June in each
financial year, a report in such form as the President may direct, on the activities of the
Authority during the immediate preceding year, and shall include in the report a copy of
the audited accounts of the Authority for that year and of the reports mentioned in
section 11 (3) of this Act.
13. Applicable laws in the Federal Capital Territory

-- 6 of 14 --

(1) In addition to any law having effect, or made applicable throughout the Federation,
the laws set out in the Second Schedule to this Act shall as from 9 May, 1984 apply in
the Federal Capital Territory.
[Second Schedule.]
(2) Where any of the laws set out in the Second Schedule had effect in the former
Federal Territory of Lagos and any such law, whether by reason of the creation of States
in Nigeria or otherwise howsoever, had become obsolete, such laws shall by virtue of
this Act be reviewed and shall apply in the Federal Capital Territory as provided in
subsection (1) above.
(3) The laws set out in the Second Schedule to this Act and applying in the Federal
Capital Territory by virtue of subsection (1) of this section shall have effect with such
modifications as may be necessary to bring them into conformity with the Constitution
of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and, in particular‐
[Second Schedule.]
(a) 	references in any such laws to Region, State or Federal Territory of
Lagos shall, unless the context otherwise requires, be construed as reference to the
Federal Capital Territory;
(b) 	functions conferred by any such law on the Governor, Premier,
Military Governor or Administrator, Minister or any Commissioner in the Government of
a State shall, without prejudice to the exercise of those functions by the President and
until other provision in respect of any such function is made by the authority having
power to do so, vest in the Minister charged with responsibility for the Federal Capital
Territory.
(4) The President may by order published in the Federal Gazette make such changes in
the text of the laws set out in the Second Schedule to this Act as would bring those laws
into conformity with the provisions of this Act.
14. Regulations
The President may make regulations generally for carrying into effect the provisions of
this Act.
15. Interpretation of applicable laws
The Interpretation Act shall apply for the interpretation of the laws set out in the