1. Separation of campus of technology, etc.

(1) As from 1 January 1988, the campuses of technology listed in paragraphs (a) and
(b) of this subsection shall be separated from the Universities as follows, that is-                                                                                                  [1990 No. 37.]

(a)       campus of technology, Abeokuta from the University of Lagos;

(b)       campus of technology, Makurdi from the University of Jos.

(2) The campuses of technology separated under subsection (1) of this section shall
be known and referred to by the name specified herein, that is-

(a)       campus of technology, Abeokuta as the University of Agriculture, Abeokuta;

(b)       campus of technology, Markurdi as the University of Agriculture, Markurdi.

2. Establishment and objects of Universities of Agriculture

(1) There are hereby established the following Universities of Agriculture, that is-

(a)       the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, Ogun State;

(b)       the Federal University of Agriculture, Makurdi, Benue State; and

(c)        the Federal University of Agriculture, Umudike, Abia State.

(2) Each University shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a com-
mon seal and may sue and be sued in its corporate name.

(3) The objects of each University shall be-

(a)         to encourage the advancement of learning and to hold out to all persons with-
out distinction of race, creed, sex or political conviction, the opportunity of ac-
quiring a higher education in agriculture;

(b)         to develop and offer academic and professional programmes leading to the
award of diplomas, first degrees, postgraduate research and higher degrees
which emphasise planning, adaptive, technical, maintenance, developmental
and productive skills in agriculture, agricultural engineering and allied profes-
sional disciplines with the aim of producing socially mature persons with ca-
pacity to improve on those disciplines and develop new ones, but also to con-
tribute to the scientific transformation of agriculture in Nigeria;

(c)         to act as agents and catalysts, through postgraduate training, research and in-
novation for the effective and economic utilisation, exploitation and conserva-
tion of Nigeria's natural, agricultural, economic and human resources;

(d)        to offer to the general population, as a form of public service, the results of
training and research in agriculture and allied disciplines and to foster the
practical application of those results;

(e)         to establish appropriate relationships with other national institutions involved
in training, research and development of agriculture;

(f)         to identify the agricultural problems and needs of Nigeria and to find solutions
to them within the context of overall national development;

(g)         to provide and promote sound basic scientific training as a foundation for the
development of agriculture and allied disciplines, taking into account indige-
nous culture, the need to enhance national unity, the need to vastly increase the
practical content of student training, and adequate preparation of graduates for
self-employment in agriculture and allied professions;

(h)        to promote and emphasise teaching, research and extension of agricultural
knowledge, including agriculture extension services and outreach programmes,
in-service training, continuing education, and on-farm adaptive research;

(i)         to offer academic programmes in relation to the training of manpower for agri-
culture in Nigeria;

(j)         to organise research relevant to training of agriculture with emphasis on small-
scale farming;

(k)        to organise extension services and out-reach programmes for technology trans-
fer;

(I)         to establish institutional linkages in order to foster collaboration and integra-
tion of training, research, and extension activities; and

(m)       to undertake any other activities appropriate for Universities of Agriculture.

3.
Constitution and principal officers of each University
(1) Each University shall consist of-

(a)       a Chancellor;

(b)       a Pro-Chancellor and a Council;

(c)        a Vice-Chancellor and a Senate;

(d)       a Deputy Vice-Chancellor;

(e)       a body to be called Congregation;

(f)         a body to be called Convocation;

(g)       campuses and colleges of the University;

(h)       schools, institutes and other teaching and research units;

(i)        persons holding the offices constituted by the First Schedule to this Act other
than those mentioned in paragraph (a) to (d) of this subsection;

(j)        all graduates and undergraduates of the University; and

(k)       all other persons who are members of the University in accordance with provisions made by statute in that behalf.

(2) The First Schedule to this Act shall have effect with respect to the principal offi-
cers of each University therein mentioned.

[First Schedule.]

(3) Subject to section 6 of this Act, provision shall be made by statute with respect to
the constitution of the following bodies, namely the Council, the Senate, Congregation
and Convocation.

4. Powers of each University and their exercise

(1) For the carrying out of its objects as specified in section 2 of this Act, each Uni-
versity shall have power-

(a)       to establish such campuses, colleges, institutes, schools, extra-mural depart-
ments and other teaching and research units within the University as may, from time to time, be deemed necessary or desirable, subject to the approval of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development;

(b)       to establish agricultural and rural extension services in various parts of Nigeria;

(c)        to institute professorships, readerships or associate professorships, and other
posts and offices and to make appointments thereto;

(d)        to institute and award fellowships, scholarships, exhibitions, bursaries, medals,
prizes and other titles, distinctions, awards and other forms of assistance;

(e)        to provide for the discipline and welfare of members of the University;

(f)         to hold examinations and grant degrees, diplomas, certificates and other dis-
tinctions to persons who have pursued a course of study approved by the Uni-
versity and have satisfied such other requirements as the University may lay
down;

(g)            to grant honorary degrees, fellowships or academic titles;

(h)      to demand and receive from any student or any other person attending the Uni-
versity for the purpose of instruction such fees as the University may, from
time to time, determine subject to the overall directives of the Minister;

(i)        subject to section 23 of this Act, to acquire, hold, grant, charge or otherwise
deal with or dispose of movable and immovable property wherever situate;

(j)        to accept gifts, legacies and donations, but without obligation to accept the
same for a particular purpose unless it approves the terms and conditions at-
taching thereto;

(k)       to enter into contracts, establish trusts, act as trustee, solely or jointly with any
other person, and employ and act through agents;

(I)        to erect, provide, equip and maintain libraries, laboratories; lecture halls, halls
of residence, refectories, sports grounds, playing fields and other buildings or
things necessary or suitable or convenient for any of the objects of the University;

(m)       to hold public lectures and to undertake printing, publishing and book-selling;

(n)      subject to any limitations on conditions imposed by statute, to invest any
money appertaining to the University by way of endowment, not being imme-
diately required for current expenditure, in any investments or securities or the purchase or improvement of land, with power from time to time to vary any such investments and to deposit any money for the time being not invested with any bank on deposit or current account;

(0)       to borrow, whether on interest or not if need be upon the security of any or all
of the property, movable or immovable, of the University, such moneys as the
Council may, from time to time, in its discretion find it necessary or expedient
to borrow or to guarantee any loan, advances or credit facilities;

(P)      to do anything which it is authorised or required by this Act or by statute to do;
and

(q)      to do all such acts or things, incidental to the foregoing powers, as may ad-
vance the objects of the University.

(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act and of the statutes and without prejudice to
section 9 (2) of this Act, the powers conferred on the University by subsection (1) of this
section shall be exercisable on behalf of the University by the Councilor by the Senate or
in any other manner, which may be authorised by statute.

(3) The power of the University to establish further campuses and colleges within the
University shall be exercisable by statute and not otherwise.

5. Functions of the Chancellor

(1) The Chancellor shall, in relation to each University, take precedence before all
other members of the University and when he is present shall preside at all meetings of
Convocation held for conferring degrees.

(2) Every proposal to confer an honorary degree shall be subject to the confirmation
of the Chancellor.

(3) The Chancellor shall exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as
may be conferred or imposed on him by this Act or the statutes.

6. Fu
nctions of the Pro-Chancellor

(1) The Pro-Chancellor shall, in relation to each University, take precedence before
all other members of the University, except the Chancellor and except the Vice-
Chancellor when acting as chairman of Congregation or Convocation and the Pro-
Chancellor shall, when he is present, be the chairman at all meetings of the Council.

(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Pro-Chancellor shall hold office for a pe-
riod of five years beginning with the date of his appointment.

7. Composition of the Council

The Council of each University shall consist of-
[1996 No.25.]

(a)       the Pro-Chancellor;

(b)       the Vice-Chancellor;

(c)        the Deputy Vice-Chancellor;

(d)       one person from the Ministry responsible for education;

(e)        nine persons representing a variety of interests and broadly representative of

the whole Federation to be appointed by the President;

(f)         four persons appointed by the Senate from among its members;

(g)       two persons appointed by Congregation from among its members;

(h)       one person appointed by Convocation from among its members.

8. Functions of the Council and its Finance and General Purposes Committee

(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act relating to the Visitor, the Council shall be
the governing body of each University and shall be charged with the general control and
superintendence of the policy, finance and property of the University.

(2) There shall be a committee of the Council to be known as the Finance and Gen-
eral Purposes Committee, which shall, subject to the directions of the Council, exercise
control over the property and expenditure of the University and perform such other func-
tions of the Council as the Council may, from time to time, delegate to it.

(3) Provision shall be made by statute with respect to the constitution of the Finance
and General Purposes Committee.

(4) The Council shall ensure that proper accounts of the University are kept and that
the accounts of the University are audited annually by an independent firm of auditors
approved by the Council and that an annual report shall be published by the University
together with certified copies of the said accounts as audited.

(5) Subject to this Act and the statutes, the Council and the Finance and General Pur-
poses Committee may each make rules for regulating their own procedure.

(6) Rules made under subsection (5) of this section by the Finance and General Pur-
poses Committee shall not come into force unless approved by the Council; and in so far
and to the extent that any rules so made by that Committee conflict with any directions
given by the Council (whether before or after the coming into force of the rules in ques-
tion), the direction of the Council shall prevail.

(7) There shall be paid to the members of the Council, the Finance and General Pur-
poses Committee respectively and of any other committee set up by the Council an al-
lowance in respect of travelling and other reasonable expenses, at such rates as may, from
time to time, be fixed by the Minister.

(8) The Council shall meet as and when necessary for the performance of its func-
tions under this Act and shall meet at least three times in every year.

(9) If requested in writing by any five members of the Council the chairman shall
within 28 days after the receipt of such request call a meeting of the Council.

(10) Any request made under subsection (9) of this section shall specify the business
to be considered at the meeting and a business not so specified shall not be transacted at
the meeting.

9. Functions of the Senate

(1) Subject to section 8 of this Act and subsections (3) and (4) of this section and to
the provisions of this Act relating to the Visitor, it shall be the general function of the
Senate to organise and control the teaching by the University, the admission (where no
other enactment provides to the contrary, of students) and the discipline of students; and
to promote research at the University.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1) of this section and subject as
there mentioned, it shall in particular be the function of the Senate to make provision
for-

(a)      the establishment and organisation and control of campuses, colleges, schools,
institutes and other teaching and research units of the University and allocation
of responsibility for different branches of learning;

(b)      the organisation and control of courses of study in the University and of the
examinations held in conjunction with those courses, including the appoint-
ment of examiners, both internal and external;

(c)       the award of degrees, and such other qualifications as may be prescribed, in
connection with examinations held as aforesaid;

(d)      the making of recommendations to the Council with respect to the award to
any person of an honourary fellowship or degree or the title of professor
emeritus;

(e)      the establishment, organisation and control of halls of residence and similar
institutions at the University;

(f)       the supervision of the welfare of students at the University and the regulation of their conduct;

(g)      the granting of fellowships, scholarships, prizes and similar awards in so far as
the awards are within the control of the University; and

(h)       determining what description of dress shall be academic dress for the purposes
of the University, and regulating the use of academic dress.

(3) The Senate shall not establish any new campus, college, school, department, in-
stitute or other teaching and research units of the University without the approval of the
Council.

(4) Subject to this Act and statutes, the Senate may make regulations for the purpose
of exercising any function conferred on it either by the foregoing provisions of this sec-
tion or otherwise or for the purpose of making provisions for any matter for which provi-
sion by regulations is authorised or required by this Act or by statute.

(5) Regulations shall provide that at least one of the persons appointed as the exam-
iners at each final or professional examination held in conjunction with any course of
study at the University, as may be prescribed by the Senate from time to time, is not a
teacher at the University but is a teacher of the branch of learning to which the course
relates at some other university of high repute or a person engaged in practising the pro-
fession in a reputable organisation or institution.

(6) Subject to a right of appeal to the Council from a decision of the Senate under this
subsection, the Senate may deprive any person of any degree, diploma or other award of
the University which has been conferred upon him if after due enquiry he is shown to
have been guilty of dishonourable or scandalous conduct in gaining admission into the
University or obtaining that award.

10. F
unctions of the Vice-Chancellor

(1) The Vice-Chancellor shall, in relation to each University, take precedence before
all other members of the University, except the Chancellor, and any other person for the
time being acting as chairman of the Council.

(2) Subject to sections 8, 9, and 15 of this Act, the Vice-Chancellor shall have the
general function, in addition to any other functions conferred on him by this Act or oth-
erwise, of directing the activities of the University and shall be the chief executive and
academic officer of the University and ex-officio chairman of the Senate.

Transfers of property, etc., to each University

11.
Transfer of property

(1) All property (with the exception of the Federal Root Crops Research Institute,
Umudike) held by or on behalf of each University shall, by virtue of this subsection and
without further assurance, vest in the University and be held by it for the purposes of the
University.

(2) The provisions of the Second Schedule to this Act shall have effect with respect
to matters arising from the transfer of property by this section and with respect to the
other matters mentioned in that Schedule.

[Second Schedule.]

Statutes of each University

12. Powers of each University to make statutes

(1) Subject to this Act, each University may make statutes for any of the following
purposes, that is to say-

(a)      making provision with respect to the composition and constitution of any
authority of the University;

(b)      specifying and regulating the powers and duties of any authority of the Univer-
sity and regulating any other matter connected with the University or any of its authorities;

(c)       regulating the admission of students (where no other enactment provides to the contrary), and their discipline and welfare;

(d)       determining whether any particular matter is to be treated as an academic or
non-academic matter for the purposes of this Act and of any statute, regulation or other instrument made thereunder;

(e)       making provision for any other matter for which provision by statute is
authorised or required by this Act.

(2) Subject to section 28 (6) of this Act, the Interpretation Act shall apply in relation
to any statute made under this section as it applies to a subsidiary instrument within the
meaning of section 29 (1) of that Act.

[Cap. I23.]

(3) The statute contained in the Second Schedule to this Act shall be deemed to have
come into force on the commencement of this section of this Act and shall be deemed to
have been made under this section by each University.

[Second Schedule.]

(4) The power to make statutes conferred by this section shall not be prejudiced or
limited in any way by reason of the inclusion or omission of any matter in or from the
statute contained in the Second Schedule to this Act or any subsequent statute.

[Second Schedule.]

13. Mode of exercising power to make statutes

(1) The power of each University to make statutes shall be exercised in accordance
with the provisions of this section and not otherwise.

(2) A proposed statute shall not become law unless it has been approved-

(a)      at a meeting of the Senate, by the votes of not less than two thirds of the mem-
bers present and voting; and

(b)      at a meeting of the Council, by the votes of not less than two thirds of the
members present and voting.

(3) A proposed statute may originate either in the Senate or in the Council, and may
be approved as required by subsection (2) of this section by either one of those bodies
before the other.

(4) A statute which makes provision for or alters the composition or constitution of
the Council, the Senate or any other authority of the University shall not come into op-
eration unless it has been approved by the President.

(5) For the purposes of section 1 (2) of the Interpretation Act a statute shall be treated
as being made on the date on which it is duly approved by the Council after having been
approved by the Senate, as the case may be or, in the case of a statute falling within sub-
section (4) of this section, on the date on which it is approved by the President.

[Cap. I23.]

(6) In the event of any doubt or dispute arising at any time-

(a)       as to the meaning of any provision of a statute; or

(b)      as to whether any matter is for the purpose of this Act an academic matter as
they relate to such doubt or dispute, the matter may be referred to the Visitor, who shall take such advice and make such deci-
sion therein as he shall think fit.

(7) The decision of the Visitor on any matter referred to him under subsection (6) of
(lis section shall be final and binding upon the authorities, staff and students of the Uni-
versity and where any question as to the meaning of any provision of a statute has been
decided by the Visitor under that subsection, the question as to the meaning of that provi-
sion shall not be entertained by any court of law in Nigeria.

(8) Nothing in subsection (7) of this section shall affect any power of a court of com-
petent jurisdiction to determine whether any provision of a statute is wholly or partially
void as being ultra vires or as being inconsistent with the Constitution of the Federal Re-
public of Nigeria 1999.

[Cap. C23.]

14. Proof of statutes

A statute may be proved in any court by the production of a copy thereto bearing af-
fixed to it a certificate purporting to be signed by the Vice-Chancellor or the secretary to
the Council to the effect that the copy is a true copy of a statute of the University.

Supervision and discipline

15. The Visitor

(1) The President shall be the Visitor of each University.

(2) The Visitor shall as often as the circumstances may require, not being less than
once every five years, conduct a visitation of the University or direct that such a visitation
be conducted by such person or persons as the Visitor may deem fit and in respect of any
of the affairs of the University.

(3) It shall be duty of the bodies and persons comprising the University to make
available to the Visitor and to any other person conducting a visitation in pursuance of
this section, such facilities and assistance as he or they may reasonably require for the
purposes of a visitation.

16. Removal o
f certain members of Council

(1) If it appears to the Council that a member of the Council (other than the Pro-
Chancellor or the Vice-Chancellor) should be removed from office on the ground of mis-
conduct or inability to perform the functions of his office or employment, the Council
shall make a recommendation to that effect through the Minister to the President after
making such enquiry, if any, as may be considered appropriate, and if the President ap-
proves the recommendation he may direct the removal of the person in question from
office.

(2) It shall be the duty of the Minister to use his best endeavour to cause a copy of the
instrument embodying a direction under subsection (1) of this section to be served as
soon as reasonably practicable on the person to whom it relates.

17. Removal and discipline of academic, administrative and professional
staff

(1) If it appears to the Council that there are reasons for believing that any person
employed as a member of the academic, administrative or professional staff of the Uni-
versity, other than Vice-Chancellor, should be removed from his office or employment on
the ground of misconduct or of inability to perform the functions of his office or em-
ployment, the Council shall-

(a)       give notice of those reasons to the person in question;

(b)       afford him an opportunity of making representations in person on the matter;

(c)        appoint a Staff Disciplinary Committee,

and if the Council, after considering the report of the Staff Disciplinary Committee, is
satisfied that the person in question should be removed as aforesaid, the Council may so
remove him by an instrument in writing signed on the directions of the Council.

(2) The Vice-Chancellor may, in case of misconduct by a member of staff which in
the opinion of the Vice-Chancellor is prejudicial to the interests of the University, sus-
pend such member and any such suspension shall forthwith be reported to the Council.

(3) For good cause, any member of staff may be suspended from his duties or his ap-
pointment may be terminated by the Council; and for the purposes of this subsection
"good cause" means-

(a)      conviction for any offence which the Council considers to be such as to render
the person concerned unfit for the discharge of the functions of his office; or

(b)      any physical or mental incapacity which the Council, after obtaining medical
advice, considers to be such as to render the person concerned unfit to continue
to hold his office; or

(c)       conduct of a scandalous or other disgraceful nature which the Council consid-
ers to be such as to render the person concerned unfit to continue to hold his
office; or

(d)      conduct which the Council considers to be such as to constitute failure or in-
ability of the person concerned to discharge the functions of his office or to
comply with terms and conditions of his service; or

(e)       conduct which the Council considers to be generally of such nature as to ren-
der the continued appointment or service of the person concerned prejudicial
or detrimental to the interest of the University.

(4) Any person suspended pursuant to subsection (2) or (3) of this section shall be on
half pay and the Council shall before the expiration of a period of three months after the
date of such suspension consider the case against that person and come to a decision as
to--

(a)      whether to continue such person's suspension and if so on what terms (in-
cluding the proportion. of his emoluments to be paid to him); or

(b)      whether to re-instate such person in which case the Council shall restore his
full emoluments with effect from the date of suspension; or

(c)       whether to terminate the appointment of the person concerned in which case
such person shall not be entitled to the proportion of his emoluments withheld
during the period of suspension; or

(e)       whether to take such lesser disciplinary action against such person (including
the restoration of such proportion of his emoluments as might have been withheld) as the Council may determine.

(EDITORIAL NOTE: Numbering as per Gazette. )

(5) In any case where the Council, pursuant to this section, decides to continue a per-
son's suspension or decides to take further disciplinary action against a person, the Coun-
cil shall before the expiration of a period of three months from such decision come to a
final determination in respect of the case concerning any such person.

(6) It shall be the duty of the person by whom an instrument of removal is signed in
pursuance of subsection (1) of this section to use his best endeavour to cause a copy of
the instrument to be served as soon as reasonably practicable on the person to whom it
relates.

(7) Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this section shall-

(a)       apply to any directive given by the Visitor in consequence of any visitation; or

(b)       prevent the Council from making regulations for the discipline of other catego-
ries of workers of the University as may be prescribed.

18. Procedures for staff discipline

(1) The Vice-Chancellor or Senate shall constitute an Investigation Panel to deter-
mine whether or not a prima facie case has been established against any member of staff.

(2) The Investigation Panel shall include the President or the chairman of the union to
which the staff being investigated belongs.

(3) The Vice-Chancellor shall constitute a Staff Disciplinary Committee which shall
consist of such members of the Senate as he may determine, to consider the report of the
Investigating Panel.

(4) The report and recommendation of the Staff Disciplinary Committee shall be
forwarded to the Council for consideration and decision.

19. Appointment of external exami
ners

External examiners shall be appointed by the Senate.

20. Removal of examiners

(1) If on the recommendation of the Senate, it appears to the Vice-Chancellor that a
person appointed as an examiner for any examination of the University ought to be re-
moved from his office or appointment, then except in such cases as may be prescribed,
the Vice-Chancellor may, after affording the examiner an opportunity of making repre-
sentations in person on the matter to the Vice-Chancellor, remove the examiner from the
office or appointment by an instrument in writing signed by the Vice-Chancellor.

(2) Subject to the provisions of regulations made in pursuance of section 9 (5) of this
Act, the Vice-Chancellor may, on the recommendation of the Senate, appoint an appro-
priate person as examiner in place of the examiner removed in pursuance of subsection
(1) of this section.

(3) It shall be duty of the Vice-Chancellor to sign an instrument of removal in pursu-
ance of this section, to use his best endeavour to cause a copy of this instrument to be
served as soon as is reasonably practicable on the person to whom it relates.

21. Discipline of students

(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, where it appears to the Vice-Chancellor
that any student of the University has been guilty of misconduct, the Vice-Chancellor
may, in consultation with the Senate and, without prejudice to any other disciplinary
power conferred on him by statute or regulations, direct that-

(a)      the student shall not, during such period as may be specified in the direction,
participate in such activities of the University, or make use of such facilities of
the University, as may be so specified; or

(b)      the activities of the student shall, during such period as may be specified in the
direction, be restricted in such manner as may be so specified; or

(c)        the student be rusticated for such period as may be specified in the direction; or

(d)        the student be expelled from the University.

(2) Where a direction is given under subsection (1) (c) or (d) of this section in respect
of any student, that student may, within the prescribed period and in the prescribed man-
ner, appeal to the Council; and where such an appeal is brought, the Council shall after
causing such inquiry to be made in the matter as the Council considers just, confirm or
set aside the direction or modify it in such manner as the Council thinks fit.

(3) The fact that an appeal from a direction is brought in pursuance of subsection (2)
of this section shall not affect the operation of the direction while the appeal is pending.

(4) The Vice-Chancellor may delegate his powers under this section to a Disciplinary
Committee consisting of such members of the University as he may nominate.

(5) Nothing in this section shall be construed as preventing the restriction or termina-
tion of a student's activities at the University otherwise than on the ground of miscon-
duct.

(6) Without prejudice to the provision of subsection (1) of this section, nothing shall
prevent the Vice-Chancellor from taking an immediate disciplinary action against a stu-
dent where he deems fit, and report thereafter to the Senate.

(7) It is hereby declared that a direction under subsection (1) (a) of this section may
be combined with a direction under subsection (1) (b) of this section.

(8) No staff or student shall resort to a law court without proof of having exhausted
the integral avenues for settling disputes or grievances or for seeking redress.

(9) The Visitor shall be the final arbiter on staff and student discipline, and his deci-
sion shall not be contestable in any court of law in Nigeria.

(10) Nothing in this subsection shall affect any power of a court of competent juris-
diction to enforce the fundamental right of any aggrieved citizen as enshrined in the Con-
stitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999.

[Cap. C23.]

Miscellaneous and general

22. E
xclusion of discrimination on account of race, religion, etc.

(1) No person shall be required to satisfy the requirements as to any of the following
matters, that is to say, race (including ethnic grounding), sex, place of birth or family
origin, or religious or political persuasion, as a condition of becoming or continuing to be
a student at the University, the holder of any degree of the University or of any appoint-
ment or employment at the University or a member of any body established by virtue of
this Act; and no person shall be subjected to any disadvantage or accorded any advantage
in relation to the University, by reference to any of those matters.

(2) Nothing in subsection (1) of this section shall be construed as preventing the Uni-
versity from imposing any disability or restriction on any of the aforementioned persons
where such person wilfully refuses or fails on grounds of religious belief to undertake any
duty generally and uniformly imposed on all such persons or any group of them which
duty, having regard to its nature and the special circumstance pertaining thereto, is in the
opinion of the University reasonably justifiable in the national interest.

23.
Restriction on disposal of land by University

Without prejudice to the provisions of the Land Use Act, the University shall not dis-
pose of or charge any land or an interest in any land (including any land transferred to the
University by this Act) except either with the prior written consent either general or spe-
cial, of the President:

[Cap. L5.]

Provided that such consent shall not be required in the case of any lease or tenancy
at a rack-rent for a term not exceeding 21 years or lease or tenancy to a member of the
University for residential purposes.

24. Quorum and procedure of bodies established by this Act

Except as may be otherwise provided by statute or by regulations, the quorum and
procedure of any body of persons established by this Act shall be as determined by that
body.

25.
Appointment of committees, etc.

(1) Any body of persons established by this Act shall, without prejudice to the gener-
ality of the powers of that body, have power to appoint committees, which need not con-
sist exclusively of members of that body and to authorise a committee established by it-

(a)       to exercise, on its behalf, such of its functions as it may determine;

(b)      to co-opt members, and may direct whether or not co-opted members (if any)
shall be entitled to vote in that committee.

(2) Any two or more such bodies may arrange for the holding of joint meetings of
those bodies or for the appointment of committees consisting of members of those bodies
or any of them and either of dealing with it or of reporting on it to those bodies or any of
them.

(3) Except as may be otherwise provided by statute or by regulations, the quorum and
procedure of a committee established or meeting held in pursuance of this section shall be
such as may be determined by the body or bodies which have decided to establish the
committee or hold the meeting.

(4) Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this section shall be construed as-

(a)       enabling statutes to be made otherwise than in accordance with section 13 of
this Act; or

(b)       enabling the Senate to empower any other body to make regulations or to
award degrees or other qualifications.

(5) The Pro-Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor shall be members of every commit-
tee of which the members are wholly or partly appointed by the Council (other than a
committee appointed to inquire into the conduct of any officer in question); and the Vice-
Chancellor shall be a member of the Council and the Vice-Chancellor shall be a member
of every committee of which the members are wholly or partly appointed by the Senate.

26. Retiring a
ge of academic staff of the University

(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Pensions Act, the compulsory re-
tiring age of an academic staff of a University shall be 65 years.

[Cap. P4.]

(2) A law or rule requiring a person to retire from the public service after serving for
35 years shall not apply to an academic staff of the University.

27. Special provisions relating to pension of professors

A person who retires as a professor having served-
[1993 No. 11.]

(a)       a minimum period of fifteen years as a professor in the University or continu-
ously in the service of a university in Nigeria up to the retiring age; and

(b)        who during the period of service was absent from the University only on ap-

proved national or University assignments,

shall be entitled to pension at a rate equivalent to his last annual salary and such allow-
ances as the Council may, from time to time, determine as qualifying for pension and
gratuity, in addition to any other retirement benefits to which he may be entitled.

28. M
iscellaneous administrative provisions

(1) The seal of each University shall be such as may be determined by the Council
and approved by the Chancellor, and the affixing of the seal shall be authenticated by any
member of the Council and by the Vice-Chancellor, secretary to the Councilor any other
person authorised by statute.

(2) Any document purporting to be a document executed under the seal of the Uni-
versity shall be received in evidence and shall, unless the contrary is proved, be presumed
to be so executed.

(3) Any contract or instrument which if made or executed by a person not being a
body corporate would not be required to be under seal, may be made or executed on be-
half of the University by any person generally or specifically authorised to do so by the
Council.

(4) The validity of any proceedings of any body established in pursuance of this Act
shall not be affected by any vacancy in the membership of the body, or by any defect in
the appointment of a member of the body or by reason that any person not entitled to do

so took part in the proceedings.          .

(5) Any member of any such body who has a personal interest in any matter proposed
to be considered by that body shall forthwith disclose his interest to the body and shall
not vote on any question relating to that matter.

(6) Nothing in section 12 of the Interpretation Act (which provides for the application
in relation to subordinate legislation of certain incidental provisions) shall apply to stat-
utes or regulations made in pursuance of this Act.

[Cap. I23.]

(7) The power conferred by this Act on any body to make statutes or regulations shall
include power to revoke or vary any statute (including the statute contained in the Second
Schedule of this Act) or any regulation by a subsequent statute, or, as the case may be, by
a subsequent regulation and statute and regulations may make different provisions in re-
action to different circumstances.

[Second Schedule.]

(8) No stamp duty or other duty shall be payable in respect of any transfer of property
to the University by virtue of any provision of this Act.

(9) Any notice or other instrument authorised to be served by virtue of this Act may,
without prejudice to any other mode of service, be served by post.

9. Interpreta
tion

(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"campus" means any campus which may be established by each University;

"college" means any college which may be established by each University;

"Council" means the Council established by this Act for each University;

"graduate" means a person on whom a degree, (other than an honorary degree) has
been conferred by each University;

"Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibility for agriculture;

"notice" means notice in writing;

"office" does not include the Visitor;

"prescribed" means prescribed by statutes or regulations;

"professor" means a person designated as a professor of each University in accor-
dance with provisions made in that behalf by statute or regulations;

"property" includes rights, liabilities and obligations;

"regulations" means regulations made by the Senate or the Council;

"Senate" means the Senate of each University established pursuant to sec-
tion 3 (1) (c) of this Act;

"statute" means a statute made by each University under section 12 of this Act and in
accordance with the provisions of section 13 of this Act, and "the statutes" means all
such statutes as are in force from time to time;

"teacher" means a person holding a full-time appointment as a member of the teach-
ing or research staff of each University;

"undergraduate" means a person in statu pupillari at each University other than-

(a)       a graduate; and

(b)       a person of such description as may be prescribed for the purposes of this definition;

"University" means any of the Universities of Agriculture established under section 2
of this Act.

(2) It is hereby declared that where in any provisions of this Act it is laid down that
proposals are to be submitted or a recommendation is to be made by one authority to
another through one or more intermediate authorities, it shall be the duty of every such
intermediate authority to forward any proposals or recommendations received by it in

pursuance of that provision to the appropriate authority, but any such intermediate
authority may, if it thinks fit, forward therewith its own comments thereon.

30. Short title

This Act may be cited as the Federal Universities of Agriculture Act.