1. Establishment of the Federal Inland Revenue Service
(1) There is established a body to be known as the Federal Inland Revenue Service
(in this Act referred to as "the Service").
(2) The Service-
(a) 	shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal;
(b) 	may sue or be sued in its corporate name; and
(c) 	may acquire, hold or dispose of any property, movable or immovable, for the
purpose of carrying out any of its functions under this Act.
(3) The Service shall have such powers and duties as are conferred on it by this Act
or by any other enactment or law on such matters on which the National Assembly has
power to make law.
2. Objects of the Service
The object of the Service shall be to control and administer the different taxes and
laws specified in the First Schedule or other laws made or to be made, from time to time, by the
National Assembly or other regulations made thereunder by the Government of the Federation and to
account for all taxes collected.
[First Schedule.]
3. Establishment and composition of the management board
(1) There is established for the Service a board to be known as the Federal Inland
Revenue Service Board (in this Act referred to as "the Board") which shall have overall
supervision of the Service as specified under this Act.
(2) The Board shall consist of-
(a) 	the Executive Chairman of the Service who shall be experienced in taxation as
Chairman of the Service to be appointed by the President and subject to the
confirmation of the Senate;

-- 4 of 41 --

(b) 	six members with relevant qualifications and expertise who shall be appointed
by the President to represent each of the six geo-political zones;
(c) 	a representative of the Attorney-General of the Federation;
(d) 	the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria or his representative;
(e) 	a representative of the Minister of Finance not below the rank of a Director;
(f) 	the Chairman of the Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal
Commission or his representative who shall be any of the Commissioners
representing the 36 States of the Federation;
(g) 	the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum
Corporation or his representative who shall not be below the rank of a
Group Executive Director of the Corporation or its equivalent;
(h) 	the Comptroller-General of the Nigeria Custom Service or his
representative not below the rank of Deputy Comptroller-General;
(i) 	the Registrar-General of the Corporate Affairs Commission or his representative not
below the rank of a Director; and
(j) 	the Chief Executive Officer of the National Planning Commission or his
representative not below the rank of a Director.
(3) The members of the Board, other than the Executive Chairman, shall be part-time
members.
(4) The supplementary provisions set out in the Second Schedule to this Act shall
have effect with respect to the proceedings of the Board and other matters mentioned
therein.
[Second Schedule.]
4. Tenure of Office
The Chairman and other members of the Board, other than ex officio members, shall
each hold Office-
(a) 	for a term of four years renewable once only;
(b) 	on such terms and conditions as may be specified in the letter of appointment.
5. Cessation of membership
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 4 of this Act, a member of the Board shall
cease to hold Office as a member of the Board if-
(a) 	he resigns his appointment as a member of the Board by notice, under his
hand, addressed to the President;
(b) 	he becomes of unsound mind;
(c) 	he becomes bankrupt or makes a compromise with his creditors;
(d) 	he is convicted of a felony or of any offence involving dishonesty or corruption;
(e) 	he becomes incapable of carrying on the functions of his Office either arising
from an infirmity of mind or body;

-- 5 of 41 --

(f) 	the President is satisfied that it is not in the interest of the Service or in the interest
of the public for the person to continue in Office and the President removes him
from Office;
(g) 	he has been found guilty of contravening the Code of Conduct Bureau and
Tribunal Act, or gross misconduct in relation to his duties;
[Cap. C15.]
(h) 	in the case of a person possessing a professional qualification, he is disqualified by
a competent authority; or
(i) 	in the case of a person who becomes a member by virtue of the Office he occupies,
he ceases to hold such Office.
6. Emoluments, etc. of members
The Chairman and members of the Board shall be paid such emoluments, allowances
and benefits as may be approved by the National Wages, Incomes and Salaries Commis-
sion.
PART II
Powers and Functions of the Board and the Service
7. Powers of the Board
The Board shall-
(a) 	provide the general policy guidelines relating to the functions of the Service;
(b) 	manage and superintend the policies of the Service on matters relating to the
administration of the revenue assessment, collection and accounting system under this
Act or any enactment or law;
(c) 	review and approve the strategic plans ofthe Service;
(d) 	employ and determine the terms and conditions of service including discipli-
nary measures of the employees of the Service;
(e) 	stipulate remuneration, allowances, benefits and pensions of staff and employees in
consultation with the National Salaries, Income and Wages Commission; and
(f) 	do such other things which in its opinion are necessary to ensure the efficient
performance of the functions of the Service under this Act.
8. Functions of tbe Service
(1) The Service shall-
(a) 	assess persons including companies, enterprises chargeable with tax;
(b) 	assess, collect, account and enforce payment of taxes as may be due to the
Government or any of its agencies;
(c) 	collect, recover and pay to the designated account, any tax under any provision
of this Act or any other enactment or law;
(d) 	in collaboration with the relevant Ministries and agencies, review the tax re-
gimes and promote the application of tax revenues to stimulate economic ac-
tivities and development;

-- 6 of 41 --

(e) 	in collaboration with the relevant law enforcement agencies, carry out the
examination and investigation with a view to enforcing compliance with the
provisions of this Act;
(f) 	make, from time to time, a determination of the extent of financial loss and
such other losses by Government arising from tax fraud or evasion and such
other losses (or revenue foregone) arising from tax waivers and other related
matters;
(g) 	adopt measures to identity, trace, freeze, confiscate or seize proceeds derived
from tax fraud or evasion;
(h) 	adopt measures which include compliance and regulatory actions, introduction
and maintenance of investigative and control techniques on the detection and
prevention of non-compliance;
(i) 	collaborate and facilitate rapid exchange of information with relevant national or
international agencies or bodies on tax matters;
(j) 	undertake exchange of personnel or other experts with complementary agencies
for purposes of comparative experience and capacity building;
(k) 	establish and maintain a system for monitoring international dynamics of taxation
in order to identity suspicious transactions and the perpetrators and other persons
involved;
(l) 	provide and maintain access to up to date and adequate data and information on all
taxable persons, individuals, corporate bodies or all agencies of Gov-
ernment involved in the collection of revenue for the purpose of efficient, ef-
fective and correct tax administration and to prevent tax evasion or fraud.
(m) 	maintain database, statistics, records and reports on persons, organisations,
proceeds, properties, documents or other items or assets relating to tax
administration including matters relating to waivers, fraud or evasion;
(n) 	undertake and support research on similar measures with a view to stimulating
economic development and determine the manifestation, extent, magnitude and
effects of tax fraud, evasion and other matters that affect effective tax
administration and make recommendations to the Government on appropriate
intervention and preventive measures;
(0) 	collate and continually review all policies of the Federal Government relating
to taxation and revenue generation and undertake a systematic and progressive
implementation of such policies;
(P) 	liaise with the office of the Attorney-General of the Federation, all Govern-
ment security and law enforcement agencies and such other financial supervisory
institutions in the enforcement and eradication of tax related offences;
(q) 	issue taxpayer identification number to every taxable person in Nigeria in col-
laboration with States Boards of Internal Revenue and Local Government
Councils;
(r) 	carry out and sustain rigorous public awareness and enlightenment campaign
on the benefits of tax compliance within and outside Nigeria;
(s) 	carry out oversight functions over all taxes and levies accruable to the Gov-
ernment of the Federation and as it may be required, query, subpoena, sanction
and reward any activities pertaining to the assessment, collection of and ac-
counting for revenues accruable to the Federation; and
(t) 	carry out such other activities as are necessary or expedient for the full dis-

-- 7 of 41 --

charge of all or any of the functions under this Act.
(2) The Service may, from time to time, specify the form of returns, claims, state-
ments and notices necessary for the due administration of the powers conferred on it by
this Act.
9. Establishment of Technical Committee ofthe Board
(1) There shall be a technical committee of the Board (in this Act referred to as "the
Technical Committee") which shall consist of-
(a) 	the Executive Chairman of the Service as Chairman;
(b) 	all the Directors and heads of departments of the Service;
(c) 	the Legal Adviser ofthe Service; and
(d) 	the Secretary to the Board.
(2) The Technical Committee may co-opt from the Service such staff as it may deem
necessary for the effective performance of its functions under this Act.
10. Functions of the Technical Committee
The Technical Committee shall-
(a) 	consider all tax matters that require professional and technical expertise and
make recommendations to the Board;
(b) 	advise the Board on any aspect of the functions and powers ofthe Service un-
der this Act; and
(c) 	attend to such other matters which may from time to time be referred to it by
the Board.
PART III
Management and Staff of the Service
11. Executive Chairman of the Service
The Executive Chairman shall-
(a) 	be appointed by the President subject to the confirmation of the Senate;
(b) 	be the chief executive and accounting officer of the Service;
(c) 	be responsible for the execution of the policies and the day to day administra-
tion of the of the Service; and
(d) 	have cognate experience and skills in accountancy, economics, taxation, law
and related fields.

-- 8 of 41 --

12. Appointment of Secretary to the Board and other stafT of the Service
(1) There shall be a Secretary for the Board who shall-
(a) 	be appointed by the Board from within the Service;
(b) 	issue notices of meetings of the Board;
(c) 	keep records of the proceedings of the Board; and
(d) 	carry out such duties as the Executive Chairman as the Board may, from time
to time, direct.
(2) Subject to the provisions of this section, the Board may appoint such other per-
sons to be employees of the Service and on such terms and conditions as may be pre-
scribed by the Board.
(3) if the Board thinks it expedient that any vacancy in the Service should be filled
by a person holding office in the Civil Service of the Federation or of a State, it shall
notify the appropriate Civil Service to that effect and thereafter the Board, may, by ar-
rangement with the Civil Service Commission concerned, cause such vacancy to be filled
by way of secondment or transfer.
(4) The Service may appoint and employ such consultants, including Tax Consult-
ants or accountants and agents to transact any business or to do any act required to be
transacted or done in the execution of its functions under this Act:
Provided that such consultants shall not carry out duties of assessing and collecting
tax or routine responsibilities of tax officials.
13. Pensions
Employment in the Service shall be subject to the provisions of the Pension Reform
Act and officers and employees of the Service shall be entitled to pensions and other re-
tirement benefits as prescribed under the Pension Reform Act.
[Cap. P4.]
14. Staff regulations
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board may make regulations relating
generally to the conditions of service of the staff and, in particular, such regulations may
provide for-
(a) 	the appointment, promotion, termination, dismissal and discipline of staff or
employees of the Service; and
(b) 	appeals by staff or employees against dismissal or other disciplinary measures,
and until such regulations are made, any instrument relating to conditions of service in
the public service of the Federation shall be applicable, with such modifications as may
be necessary, to the employees of the Service.
(2) The staff regulations made under subsection (1) of this section shall be published
by the Board and issued to its staff in such manner as the Service may from time to time
determine pending the publication in the Federal Gazette.

-- 9 of 41 --

PART IV
Financial Provisions
15. Funds of the Service
The Service shall establish and maintain a fund which shall consist of and to which
shall be credited-
(a) 	a percentage as determined by the National Assembly of all non-oil and gas
revenue collected by the Service which may be appropriated by the
National Assembly for the capital and recurrent expenditures of the
Service;
(b) 	all sums of money accruing to the Service by way of grants-in-aid and,
gifts, testamentary dispositions, endowments and contributions from any
source;
(c) 	such monies as may from time to time be granted to the Service by the Federal,
State or Local Governments or other donor agencies, provided such grants are not
intended for purposes contrary to the objects and functions of the Service; and
(d) 	all other monies which may, from time to time, accrue to the Service for
other services including the disposal, lease or hire of, or any other dealing
with, any property vested in or acquired by the Service.
16. Expenditure of the Service
The Service shall defray from the Fund established pursuant to section 15 of this Act
all the amounts payable under or in pursuance of this Act being sums representing-
(a) 	emoluments and allowances payable to the Executive Chairman and other
members of the Board;
(b) 	reimbursements to members of the Board or any committee set up by the Board for
such expenses as may be expressly authorised by the Service;
(c) 	remunerations and other costs of employment of the staff of the Service;
(d) 	amounts payable as pensions and other retirement benefits under or pursuant to this
Act or any other enactment;
(e) 	costs of acquisition and upkeep of premises belonging to the Service and
any other capital expenditure of the Service;
(f) 	investments, maintenance of utilities, staff promotion, training, research and similar
activities;
(g) 	costs necessary for the day to day operations of the Service;
(h) 	all sums of money accruing to the Service by way of grants-in-aids, gifts,
testamentary dispositions, endowments and contributions from any other source;
and
(i) 	any other payment for anything incidental to the foregoing provisions or in
connection with or incidental to any other function of the Service under or pursuant
to this Act.

-- 10 of 41 --

17. Estimates
The Service shall cause to be prepared, not later than the 30th day of September in
each year, an estimate of its income and expenditure for the succeeding year for the purpose of
appropriation by the National Assembly.
18. Account and audit
The Service shall keep proper accounts and records, and such account shall, not later
than six months after the end of each year, be audited by auditors appointed by the Board from the
list and in accordance with the guidelines supplied by the Auditor-General for the Federation.
19. Annual report, etc.
(1) The Service shall, not later than 30th September in each year, submit to the Min-
ister, a report of its activities during the immediately preceding year and shall include in
such report the audited accounts of the Service.
(2) The Minister shall within 30 days of receipt ofthe report-
(a) 	present a copy of the report to the Federal Executive Council; and
(b) 	present a copy of the report to the National Assembly.
20. Power to accept gifts
(1) The Service may accept gifts ofland, money or other property on such terms and
conditions, if any, as may be specified by the person or organisation making the gift.
(2) The Service shall not accept any gift if the conditions attached thereto are incon-
sistent with any law for the time being in force.
21. Power to borrow
The Service may, with the approval of the Minister, borrow by way of loan, overdraft
or otherwise from any source such sums as it may require for the performance of its function and
meeting of its obligations under this Act.
22. Accountability
The Executive Chairman of the Service shall-
(a) 	keep proper accounting records, in a manner as may be determined, from time
to time, by the Board in respect of-
(i) 	all revenues and expenditure of the Service;
(ii) all its assets, liabilities and other fmancial transactions; and
(iii) all other revenues collected by the Service, including mcome on
investments;
(b) 	prepare an annual report, including financial statements, in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles and practices; and
(c) 	ensure that the available accounting resources of the Service are adequate and
used economically in the most effective and efficient manner, and the
accounting and other financial records are properly safeguarded.

-- 11 of 41 --

23. Refund to taxpayers
(1) There shall be refunded to taxpayers, after proper auditing by the Service, such
over-payment of tax as is due.
(2) The Service shall decide on who is eligible for the refund mentioned in subsec-
tion (1) of this section subject to such rules and conditions as may be approved by the
Board.
(3) Any tax refund shall be made within 90 days of the decision of the Service made
pursuant to subsection (2) of this section, with the option of setting off against future tax
by the taxpayer.
(4) For the purpose of tax refund, the Accountant-General of the Federation shall
open a dedicated account into which shall be paid monies for settling such refunds.
(5) The Service shall administer the dedicated account as created by virtue of see-
tion23 (4).
(6) For the purpose of the dedicated account, the Service shall prepare an annual
budget for tax refund to be funded from the Federation Account as may be approved by
the National Assembly.
24. Power of Accountant-General to deduct from source
The Accountant-General of the Federation shall have power to deduct at source, from the
budgetary allocation, un-remitted taxes due from any Ministry or Government agency and shall
not later than 30 days thereafter transfer such deductions to the Service.
PART V
Tax Administration and Enforcement
25. Administration of tax laws
(1) The Service shall have power to administer all the enactments listed in the First
Schedule to this Act and any other enactment or law on taxation in respect of which the
National Assembly may confer power on the Service.
(2) The Service may, with the approval of the Minister by Instrument published in
the Federal Gazette, appoint any Government agency to collect revenue pursuant to the
powers of the Service under subsection (1) of this section.
26. Call for returns, book, documents and information
(1) For the purpose of obtaining full information in respect of the profits or income
of any person, body corporate or organisation, the Service may give notice to that person,
body corporate or organisation requiring him or it within the time specified by the notice
to--
(a) 	complete and deliver to the Service any return specified in such notice;
(b) 	appear personally before an officer of the Service for examination with respect
to any matter relating to such profits or income;
(c) 	produce or cause to be produced for examination books, documents and any
other information at the place and time stated in the notice, which time may be
from day to day, for such period as the Service may deem necessary; or
(d) 	give orally or in writing any other information including a name and address
specified in such notice.

-- 12 of 41 --

(2) For the purpose of paragraphs (a) to (d) of subsection (1) of this section, the time
specified by such notice shall not be less than 7 days from the date of service of such
notice except that an officer of the Service, not below the rank of a Chief Inspector of
Taxes or its equivalent, may act in any of the cases stipulated in paragraphs (a) to (d) of
subsection (1), without giving any of the required notices set out in this section.
(3) A person who contravenes the provisions of this section is, in respect of each of-
fence, liable on conviction to a fine equivalent to 100 percent of the amount of the tax
liability.
(4) Nothing in the foregoing provision of this section or in any other provision of this
Act shall be construed as precluding the Service from verifying by tax audit or investiga-
tion into any matter relating to any return or entry in any book, document, accounts, in-
cluding those stored on a computer, in digital, magnetic, optical or electronic media as
may, from time to time, be specified in any guideline by the Service.
(5) A person may apply in writing to the Board for an extension oftime within which
to comply with the provisions of this section and section 27 of this Act; provided that the person-
(a) 	makes the application before the expiration of the time stipulated in this sec-
tion for making the returns; and
(b) 	shows good cause for his inability to comply with this provision.
(6) If the Board is satisfied with the cause shown in the application under paragraph (b)
of subsection (5), it may in writing grant the extension of the time or limit the time as it
may consider appropriate.
27. Call for further returns and payment of tax due
(1) The Service may give notice in writing to any person it considers necessary requir-
ing such person to deliver within a reasonable time specified in such notice, fuller or further
returns in respect of any matter relating to the functions of the Service under this Act.
(2) Where a tax is not paid, when it falls due under any enactment, by any person
from whom it is due, whether or not the payment of that tax has been secured by a bond or
otherwise, it shall be paid on demand made by the Service either on that person personally or by
delivering the demand in writing to his place of abode or business, and if it is not paid on demand,
the person in default shall, in addition to the 100 percent of tax due and payable, also be liable to a
penalty equal to the amount of tax due and payable.
28. Information to be delivered by bankers
(1) Without prejudice to section 26 of this Act, every bank shall prepare, upon de-
mand by the Service, quarterly returns specifying->
(a) 	in the case of an individual, all transactions involving the sum of N5,000,000.00
and above; or

-- 13 of 41 --

(b) 	. in the case of a body corporate, all transactions involving the sum of
N10,000,000.00 and above, the names and addresses of all customers of the 	bank
connected with the transaction and deliver the returns to the Service;
(c) 	the names and addresses of new customers of the bank and shall not later than the
seventh day of the succeeding month deliver the returns to the Service.
(2) Subject to subsection (1) of this section, for the purpose of obtaining information
relative to taxation, the Service may give notice to any person including a person en-
gaged in banking business in Nigeria to provide within the time stipulated in the notice,
information including the name and address of any person specified in the notice:
Provided that a person engaged in banking business in Nigeria, shall not be re-
quired to disclose any additional information about his customer or his bank under this
section unless such additional disclosure is required by a notice signed by the Executive
Chairman of the Service on the advice of the Technical Committee of the Board.
(3) Any bank that contravenes the provisions of this section commits an offence and
shall, on conviction, be liable to a fme not exceeding N500,000.00 on corporate custom-
ers and not exceeding N50,000.00 in the case of individual customer.
29. Power to access lands, buildings, books and documents
(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other enactment or law, an au-
thorised officer of the Service shall at all reasonable times have free access to all land,
buildings, places, books and documents, in the custody or under the control of a public
officer, institution or any other person, for the purpose of inspecting the books or docu-
ments including those stored or maintained in computers or on digital, magnetic, optical
or electronic media, and any property, process or matter which the officer considers necessary or relevant
for the purpose of collecting any tax under any of the relevant enactment or law or for the purpose of
carrying out any other function lawfully conferred on the Service or considered likely to provide any
information required for the purposes of any of those enactments or any of those functions and may,
without fee or reward, make extract from, or copies of, such books or documents.
(2) Where the hard copies of any of the books or documents mentioned in subsection (1) of this section
are not immediately available because they are stored in a computer or on digital, magnetic, optical or
electronic media, the Service shall take immediate possession of such removable media and the related
removable equipment or computer used to access the store documents on the media in order to prevent the
accidental or intentional destruction, removal or alteration of records and documents, especially where
such could be needed as potential evidence in the investigation or criminal proceedings.
(3) Where the Service is able to obtain in place of taking physical possession of such
equipment, computer or storage media under subsection (2) of this section, and the Ser-
vice possesses the ability, equipment and computer software to make exact duplicate copies of all
information stored on the computer hard drive and preserve all the information exactly as it is on the
original computer, the Service shall make such copy and use it as digital evidence during the investigation
or criminal proceedings.
(4) The occupier of a land, building or place that is entered or proposed to be entered by an authorised
officer, shall-
(a) 	provide the officer with all reasonable facilities and assistance for the effective exercise
of powers under this section; and
(b) 	answer questions relating to the effective exercise of the powers under this section, orally, or if
required by the officer, in writing, or by statutory declaration.
(5) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, the authorised officer shall not en-
ter any private dwelJing except with the consent of an occupier or pursuant to an authorisation issued under

-- 14 of 41 --

subsection (7) of this section.
(6) A judicial officer upon an application by an officer of the Service may authorise
the officer by warrant to enter into any premises.
(7) Every authorisation issued under subsection (7) of this section shalJ-
(a) 	be in the form prescribed in the Third Schedule this Act;
(b) 	be directed to a named officer of the Service;
(c) 	be valid for a period of 3 months from the date of its issue or such lesser period as the judicial
officer considers appropriate;
(d) 	state its period of validity, or the date on which it expires; and
(e) 	notwithstanding paragraphs (c) and (d) of this subsection, be renewable by the judicial
officer on application.
(8) An officer exercising the power of entry conferred by an authorisation issued un-
der subsection (6) of this section shall produce the written authorisation and evidence of identity-
(a) 	on first entering the private dwelling; and
(b) 	whenever subsequently reasonably required to do so.
30. Power to remove books and documents
(1) An officer of the Service authorised by the Executive Chairman, may remove
books or documents accessed under section 29 of this Act to make copies.
(2) Any copy of the books or documents removed shall be made and the books or
documents returned as soon as practicable.
(3) A copy of a book or document or digital evidence certified by or on behalf of the
Executive Chairman is admissible in evidence in court as if it were the original.
(4) The owner of a book or document that is removed under this section is entitled to
inspect and obtain a copy of the book or document, at the owner's own expense, at the
premises to which the book or document is moved to--
(a) 	at the time the book or document is moved to the premises; and
(b) 	at reasonable times subsequently.
31. Power of substitution
(1) The Service may by notice in writing appoint any person to be the agent of a tax-
able person if the circumstances provided in subsection (2) of this section makes it expe-
dient to do so.
(2) The agent appointed under subsection (1) of this section may be required to pay
any tax payable by the taxable person from any money which may be held by the agent
of the taxable person.

-- 15 of 41 --

(3) Where the agent referred to in subsection (2) of this section defaults, the tax shall
be recoverable from him.
(4) For the purposes of this section, the Service may require any person to give in-
formation as to any money, fund or other assets which may be held by him for, or of any
money due from him to, any person.
(5) The provisions of this Act with respect to objections and appeals shall apply to
any notice given under this section as if such notice were an assessment.
32. Addition for non-payment of tax and enforcement of payment
(1) Subject to subsection (3) of this section, if any tax is not paid within the periods
prescribed-
(a) 	a sum equal to IO percent of the amount of the tax payable shall be added
thereto, and the provisions of the Act relating to the collection and recovery of tax
shall apply to the collection and recovery of such sum;
(b) 	in the case of naira remittances, the tax due shall carry interest at the prevailing
minimum rediscount rate of the Central Bank of Nigeria plus spread to be
determined by the Minister from the date when the tax becomes payable until it is
paid, and the provisions of the Act relating to collection and recovery of
tax shall apply to the collection and recovery of the interest;
(c) 	in the case of foreign currency remittance, the tax due shall incur interest at the
prevailing London Inter-bank Offered Rate or the prevailing minimum rediscount
rate of the Central Bank of Nigeria whichever is higher, plus spread to be
determined by the Minister from the date when the tax becomes payable until it is
paid, and the provisions of the Act relating to collection and recovery
of tax shall apply to the collection and recovery ofthe interest;
(d) 	the Service shall serve a demand notice upon the company or person in
whose name a tax is chargeable and if payment is not made within one
month from the date of the service of such demand notice, the Service may
proceed to enforce payment under this Act; and
(e) 	an addition imposed under this subsection shall not be deemed to be part of the tax
paid for the purpose of claiming relief under any of the provisions of this Act.
(2) Any person who without lawful justification or excuse fails to pay a tax within
the period of one month prescribed in subsection (1) (d) of this section, commits an of-
fence under this Act.
(3) The Board may, for any good cause shown, remit the whole or any part of the ad-
dition due under subsection (1) of this section.
33. Power to distrain
(1) Without prejudice to any other power conferred on the Board for the enforcement of
payment of tax due from a company, where an assessment has become final and conclusive and a
demand notice has, in accordance with the provisions of the relevant tax
laws tax in the First Schedule to this Act, been served upon the taxable person or upon
the person in whose name the taxable person is chargeable, then, if payment of the tax is

-- 16 of 41 --

not made within the time limited by the demand notice, the Board may in the prescribed form, for
the purpose of enforcing payment of the tax due-
[First Schedule.]
(a) 	distrain the taxpayer by his goods or other chattels, bonds or other securities;
(b) 	distrain upon any land, premises, or place in respect of which the taxpayer is
the owner and, subject to the following provisions of this section, recover the amount of
tax due by sale of anything so distrained.
(2) The authority to distrain under this section shall be in the form contained in the
Fourth Schedule to this Act and such authority shall be sufficient warrant and authority
to levy by distrain the amount of any tax due.
[Fourth Schedule.]
(3) For the purpose of levying any distraint under this section, any officer duly au-
thorised by the Board may execute any warrant of distraint and if necessary break open
any building or place in the day time for the purpose of levying such distraint, and he
may call to his assistance any police officer and the police officer shall, when so required
aid and assist in the execution of any warrant of distraint and in levying the distraint.
(4) Things distrained under this section may, at the cost of the taxpayer, be kept for
14 days and at the end of that time if the amount due in respect of the tax, cost and
charges of any incidental to the distraint are not paid, they may, subject to subsection (6)
of this section, be sold at any time thereafter.
(5) Out of the proceeds of such sale, there shall, in the first place, be paid the cost or
charges of any incidental to the (sale and keeping of the) distraint, and disposal there-
under and in the next place the amount due in respect of the tax; and the balance (if any) shall be payable to
the taxpayer upon demand being made by him or on his behalf within one year of the date of sale.
(6) Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to authorise the sale of any im-
movable property without an order of a High Court, made on application in such form as
may be prescribed by the rules of court.
(7) In exercise of the powers of distraint conferred by this section, the person to
whom the authority is granted under subsection (3) of this section may distrain upon all
goods, chattels and effects belonging to the debtor wherever the same may be found in
Nigeria.
34. Recovery of tax
(1) Without prejudice to any other provision of this Act or any other law listed in the
First Schedule to this Act, any amount due by way of tax shall constitute a debt due to
the Service and may be recovered by a civil action brought by the Service.
(2) Where any tax has been under-assessed or erroneously repaid, the person who
should have paid the amount under-assessed or to whom the repayment has erroneously
been made shall on demand by the proper officer, pay the amount under-assessed or er-
roneously repaid, as the case may be, and any such amount may be recovered as if it
were tax to which a person to whom the amount was so under-assessed or erroneously
repaid were liable:

-- 17 of 41 --

Provided that the appropriate officer shall not make any such demand after 5 years from the
date of such under-assessment or erroneous repayment unless such under-assessment or erroneous
repayment was caused by the production of a document or the making of a statement which was
untrue in any material particular.
35. Tax investigations
(1) The Service shall employ Special Purpose Tax Officers to assist any relevant law
enforcement agency in the investigation of any offence under this Act.
(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other enactment or law, the Ser-
vice shall have the power to investigate or cause investigation to be conducted to ascer-
tain any violation of any tax law, whether or not such violation has been reported to the
Service.
(3) In conducting any investigation under subsection (2) of this section, the Service
may cause investigation to be conducted into the properties of any taxable person if it
appears to the Service that the lifestyle of the person and extent of the properties are not justified by his
source of income.
(4) Where any investigation under this section reveals the commission of any offence
or an attempt to commit any offence, the Service shall, pursuant to section 48 of this Act,
undertake the prosecution of the offences.
36. Enforcement of powers
(1) The Service may co-opt the assistance and co-operation of any of the law en-
forcement agencies in the discharge of its duties under this Act.
(2) The law enforcement officers shall aid and assist an authorised officer in the exe-
cution of any warrant of distraint and the levying of distraint.
(3) Any tax officer armed with the warrant issued by a judicial officer and accompa-
nied by a number of law enforcement officers as may be determined by the Executive
Chairman shall-
(a) 	enter any premises covered by such warrant and search for, seize and take pos-
session of any book, document or other article used or suspected to have been
used in the commission of an offence;
(b) 	inspect, make copies of, or take extracts including digital copies from any
book, record, document or computer, regardless of the medium used for their
storage or maintenance;
(c) 	search any person who is in or on such premises;
(d) 	open, examine and search any article, container or receptacle;
(e) 	open any outer or inner door or window of any premises and enter or other-
wise forcibly enter the premises and every part thereof; or
(f) 	remove by reasonable force any obstruction to such entry, search, seizure or
removal as he is empowered to effect.
(4) No person shall be bodily searched under this section except by a person who is
of the same gender as the person to be bodily searched.

-- 18 of 41 --

37. Power to pay reward
(1) The Service may, with the approval of the Board, pay any reward to any person,
not being a person employed in the Service, in respect of any information that may be of
assistance to the Service in the performance of its duties under this Act upon meeting
such conditions as may be determined by the Board and the quantum of such reward
shall also be at the discretion ofthe Board.
(2) The identity of the person who gave information to the Service shall be kept con-
fidential and any current or former member of the Service or Board that discloses the
identity of such person shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of section 39
of this Act with regard to confidential information.
38. Immunity from action, etc.
An officer of the Service shall be entitled to protection under the Public Officers Pro-
tection Act.
[Cap. P41.]
39. Information and documents to be confidential
(1) Without prejudice to the provisions of any other Act concerning official secrets,
all information and documents supplied or produced in pursuance of any requirement of
this Act or the laws listed in the First Schedule to this Act shall be treated as confidential.
[First Schedule.]
(2) Except as otherwise provided under this Act or as otherwise authorised by the
Minister, any member or former member of the Board or any employee or former em-
ployee of the Service or Ministry who communicates or attempts to communicate any
confidential information or the content of any such document to any person, commits an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding N200,000.00 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
PART VI
Offences and Penalties
40. Failure to deduct or remit tax
Any person who being obliged to deduct any tax under this Act or the laws listed in
the First Schedule to this Act, but fails to deduct, or having deducted, fails to pay to the
Service within 30 days from the date the amount was deducted or the time the duty to
deduct arose, commits an offence and shall, upon conviction, be liable to pay the tax
withheld or not remitted in addition to a penalty of 10 percent of the tax withheld or not
remitted per annum and interest at the prevailing Central Bank of Nigeria minimum
rediscount rate and imprisonment for period of not more than three years.
[First Schedule.]
41. Obstruction, etc.
Any person who--
(a) 	obstructs, hinders, molests or assaults any person or authorised officer in the
performance of any function or the exercise of any power under this Act
(b) 	does anything which impedes or is intended to impede the carrying out of
any search, seizure, removal or distraint;

-- 19 of 41 --

(c) 	rescues, damages or destroys anything so liable to seizure, removal or distress
or does anything intended to prevent the procuring or giving of evidence as to
whether or not anything is liable to seizure, removal or distraint;
(d) 	prevents the arrest of any person by a person duly engaged or acting or rescues
any person so arrested,
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
N200,000.00 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both fine and im-
prisonment.
42. False declaration
(1) If any person-
(a) 	makes or signs, or causes to be made or signed, delivers or causes to be deliv-
ered to the Service or any officer of the Service, any declaration, notice, certificate or
other document; or
(b) 	makes any statement in answer to any question or enquiry put to him by an
officer which he is required to answer by or under this Act or any other
enactment or law, being a document or statement produced or made for any
purpose of tax, which is untrue in any material particular, commits an offence
under this section.
(2) Where by reason of any such document or statement required to be produced under
subsection (1) of this section the full amount of any tax payable is not paid or any
overpayment is made in respect of any repayment of tax, the amount of tax unpaid or the
overpayment shall be recoverable as a debt due to the Service.
(3) A person who commits an offence under this section shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding N200,000.00 in addition to payment of the amount of tax unpaid
or overpayment made in respect of any repayment or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3
years or to both fine and imprisonment.
43. Counterfeiting documents, etc.
Any person who--
(a) 	counterfeits or falsifies any document which is required by or for the transaction of any
business under this Act or any law listed in the First Schedule to this Act;
[First Schedule.]
(b) 	knowingly accepts, receives or uses any document so counterfeited or falsified;
(c) 	alters any such document after it is officially issued;
(d) 	counterfeits any seal, signature, initial or other mark of, or used by, any officer
for the verification of such a purpose relating to tax; or
(e) 	being an employee of the Service, conspires, connives or participates in the
commission of any of the offences in paragraphs (a) to (d) of this section,
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
N200,000.00 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both such fme
and imprisonment.
44. Penalties for offence by authorised and unauthorised persons
Any person who is appointed for the due administration of this Act or employed in
connection with the assessment and collection of a tax who--
(a) 	demands from any company an amount in excess of the authorised assessment
of the tax;

-- 20 of 41 --

(b) 	withholds for his own use or otherwise any portion of the amount of tax
collected;
(c) 	renders a false return, whether orally or in writing, of the amount of tax col-
lected or received by him;
(d) 	defrauds any person, embezzles any money or otherwise uses his position to
deal wrongfully with the Service;
(e) 	steals or misuses the documents of the Service; or
(f) 	compromises on the assessment or collection of any tax,
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine equivalent to 200 percent
of the sum in question or to imprisonment for a term of not exceeding 3 years or to both fine and
imprisonment.
45. Penalty where offenders are armed
(1) Any person who, in the commission of an offence under this Act, is armed with
any offensive weapon commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprison-
ment for a term not exceeding 5 years.
(2) A person who, while armed with an offensive weapon, causes injury to any offi-
cer or authorised officer of the Service in the performance of any function or duty under
this Act, commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 10 years.
46. Unlawful assumption of character of an authorised officer
If, for the purpose of obtaining admission to any building or other place or of doing
or procuring to be done any act which he would not be entitled to do or procure to be
done of his own authority, or for any other unlawful purpose, any person, not being an
authorised officer, assumes the name, designation or impersonates the character of an
authorised officer, commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not ex-
ceeding N200,000.00 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years.
47. Prosecution
The Service shall have powers to employ its own legal officers who shall have pow-
ers to prosecute any of the offences under this Act subject to the powers of the Attorney-General
ofthe Federation.

-- 21 of 41 --

48. Power to compound offences
(1) The Service may compound any offence under this Act by accepting a sum of
money not exceeding the maximum fine specified for the offence.
(2) The Service shall issue an official receipt for any money received under subsec-
tion (1) of this section.
49. General penalty
(1) Any person who contravenes any provisions of this Act for which no specific
penalty was provided, commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding N50.000.00 or imprisonment for a term of imprisonment not exceeding six
months or to both fme and imprisonment.
(2) Where an offence under this Act is committed by a body corporate or firm or
other association of individuals-
(a) 	every director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body
corporate;
(b) 	every partner or officer of the firm;
(c) 	every person concerned in the management of the affairs of the association; or
(d) 	every person who was purporting to act in any capacity,
commits an offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished for the of-
fence in like manner as ifhe had himself committed the offence, unless he proves that the act or
omission constituting the offence took place without his knowledge, consent or connivance.
PART VII
General Provisions
50. Official secrecy and confidentiality
(1) Every person in an official duty or being employed in the administration of this
Act shall regard and deal with all documents, information, returns, assessment list and
copies of such list relating to the profits or items of profits of any company, as secret and
confidential.
(2) A person in possession of or control of, any document, information, return of as-
sessment list or copy of such list relating to the income or profits or losses of any person,
who at any time communicates or attempts to communicate such information or anything
contained in such document, return, list or copy to any person-
(a) 	other than a person to whom he is authorised by the Service to communicate it;
(b) 	otherwise than for the purpose of this Act or of any enactment in Nigeria im-
posing tax on the income of persons,
commits an offence under this Act.
(3) A person appointed or employed under this Act shall not be required to produce
any return, document or assessment, or to divulge or communicate any information that

-- 22 of 41 --

comes into his possession in the performance of his duties except as may be necessary in
order to institute a prosecution, or in the course of a prosecution for any offence
committed in relation to any tax in Nigeria.
(4) Where under any law in force in respect of any double taxation treaty with any
country, provision is made for the allowance of relief from income tax in respect of the
payment of income tax in Nigeria, the obligation as to secrecy imposed by this section
shall not prevent the disclosure to the authorised officers of the Government in that country of
such facts as may be necessary to enable the proper relief to be given in cases where relief is
claimed from the tax in Nigeria or from income tax in that country.
(5) Where any agreement or arrangement with any other country with respect to re-
lief for double taxation of income or profits includes provisions for the exchange of in-
formation with that country for the purpose of implementing that relief or preventing
avoidance of tax, the obligation as to secrecy imposed by this section shall not prevent
the disclosure of such information to the authorised officers of the Government of such
country.
51. Board to be subject to general direction of the Minister
( 1) In the exercise of the powers and duties conferred upon the Board by th is Act, the Board
shall be subject to the general direction of the Minister and any written direction, order or
instruction given by him after consultation with the Executive Chairman shall be carried out by
the Board:
Provided that the Minister shall not give any directive, order or instruction in
respect of any particular person which would have the effect of requiring the Board to
increase or decrease any assessment of tax made or to be made or any relief given or to
be given or to defer the collection of any tax or judgment debt due, or which would have
the effect of initiating, forbidding the initiation of, withdrawing or altering the normal
course of any proceeding whether civil or criminal, relating either to the recovery of any
tax or to any offence under any of the laws listed in the First Schedule.
[First Schedule.]
(2) In any proceeding whether civil or criminal under this Act or any of the laws
listed in the First Schedule, any act, matter or thing done by the Service or the Board in
pursuance of the said laws shall not be subject to challenge on the ground that such act,
matter or thing was not or was not proved to be in accordance with any directive, order
or instruction given by the Minister.
[First Schedule.]
52. Delegation of powers of tbe Board
(1) Any power conferred and any duty imposed upon the Board may be exercised or
performed by the Board or by an officer authorised generally or specifically in that behalf by the
Board.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) of this section, the Board may,
at any time and at its discretion, reverse or otherwise modify any decision of any officer,
affecting any tax or taxable income, whether or not the discretion to make the decision
was conferred on the officer by any law specified in the First Schedule or whether or not the
officer was authorised by the Service to make the decision, and the reversal or modification

-- 23 of 41 --

of the decision by the Board shall have effect as if it were the original decision made in
respect of the matter concerned.
[First Schedule.]
(3) An order, ruling or directive made or given by an approved committee of the
Board pursuant to this section shall not be treated as an order, ruling or directive of the
Board, until the order ruling or directive has been ratified by the Board pursuant to the
powers vested on the Board under this Act.
53. Signification
Anything done or required to be done by the Service in pursuance of any of its pow-
ers or duties under this Act or the laws listed in the First Schedule may be signified under
the hand of the Executive Chairman or of an officer who has been authorised by the
Board for the purpose of this section.
[First Schedule.]
54. Imposition of surcharge
(1) lfthe Service is satisfied that a person who is or was in its employment-
(a) 	is or was responsible for any improper payment of moneys from the fund of
the Service or for any payment of such money which is not duly documented;
(b) 	is or was responsible for any deficiency in, or for the destruction of, any
money, security, store or other property of the Service;
(c) 	being or having been an officer, fails or has failed to keep proper accounts or
record; or
(d) 	has failed to make any payment, or is responsible for any delay in the payment of moneys for the
Service to any person to whom such payment is due under
any contract, agreement or arrangement entered into between that person and the Service,
and if a satisfactory explanation is not furnished to the Service within a period specified
by the Board, with regard to the failure to collect, improper payment, payment not duly
documented, deficiency or destruction, failure to keep proper accounts or records, failure to make
payment or delay in making payment, the Service may surcharge the said person such sum as it
may think fit.
(2) Any action taken under subsection (1) of this section shall be subject to the ap-
proval of the Board and when such approval is obtained the Executive Chairman shall
notify the person surcharged under this section.
(3) The Board may at any time withdraw any surcharge in respect of which a satis-
factory explanation has been received from the person concerned or if it otherwise ap-
pears that no surcharge should have been made, the Board shall at once inform the Ex-
ecutive Chairman of such withdrawal.
(4) The amount of any surcharge imposed under subsection (1) of this section and
not withdrawn under subsection (3) of this section shall be a debt due to the Service from
the person against whom the surcharge is imposed and may be sued for and recovered in
any court in any suit initiated by the Service for its recovery and may also be recovered
by deduction from the salary of the person surcharged if the Board so directs.

-- 24 of 41 --

55. Limitation of suits against the Service, etc.
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the provisions of the Public Officers Protec-
tion Act shall apply in relation to any suit instituted against any member, officer or em-
ployee of the Service.
[Cap. P41.]
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law or enactment, no suit
against the Executive Chairman, a member of the Board, or any other officer or em-
ployee of the Service for any act done in pursuance or execution of this Act or any other
law or enactment, or of any public duty or authority or in respect of any alleged neglect
or default in the execution of this Act or any other law or enactment, duty or authority,
shall lie or be instituted in any court unless it is commenced-
(a) 	within three months next after the act, neglect or default complained of; or
(b) 	in the case of a continuation of damage or injury, within six months next after
the ceasing thereof.
(3) No suit shall be commenced against the Executive Chairman, a member of the
Board, or any other officer or employee of the Service before the expiration of a period
of one month after written notice of the intention to commence the suit shall have been
served on the Service by the intending plaintiff or his agent.
(4) The notice referred to in subsection (3) of this section shall clearly and explicitly
state the-
(a) 	cause of action;
(b) 	particulars of claim;
(c) 	name and place of abode of the intending plaintiff; and
(d) 	relief which he claims.
56. Service of documents
A notice, summons or other document required or authorised to be served on the Service under
the provisions of this Act or any other law or enactment may be served by
delivering it to the Executive Chairman or by sending it by registered post addressed to
the Executive Chairman at the principal office of the Service.
57. Restriction on execution against property of the Service
(1) In any action or suit against the Service, no execution or attachment of process in
the nature thereof shall be issued against the Service unless not less than three months
notice of the intention to execute or attach has been given to the Service.
(2) Any sum of money which by the judgment of any court has been awarded against
the Service shall, subject to any direction given by the court, where no notice of appeal
against the judgment has been given, be paid from the fund of the Service.
58. Indemnity
The Executive Chairman, a member of the Board, or any officer or employee of the
Service shall be indemnified out of the assets of the Service against any liability incurred
by him in defending any proceeding, whether civil or criminal, if the proceeding is

-- 25 of 41 --

brought against him in his capacity as Executive Chairman, a member of the Board, offi-
cer or other employee of the Service.
PART VIII
Miscellaneous Provisions
59. Establishment of a Tax Appeal Tribunal
(1) A Tax Appeal Tribunal is established as provided for in the Fifth Schedule to this Act.
[Fifth Schedule.]
(2) The Tribunal shall have power to settle disputes arising from the operations of
this Act and under the First Schedule.
[First Schedule.]
60. Directive by the Minister
The Minister may give to the Service or the Executive Chairman such directives of a
general nature or relating generally to matters of policy with regards to the exercise of its or his
functions as he may consider necessary and the Service or the Executive Chairman shall comply
with the directives or cause them to be complied with.
61. Power to make regulations
The Board may, with the approval of the Minister, make rules and regulations as in its
opinion are necessary or expedient for giving full effect to the provisions of this Act and
for the due administration of its provisions and may in particular, make regulations pre-
scribing the-
(a) 	forms for returns and other information required under this Act or any other
enactment or law; and
(b) 	procedure for obtaining any information required under this Act or any other
enactment or law.
62. Repeal of Part 1 of Cap. 60 L.F.N., 1990
(1) Part I of the Companies Income Tax Act (in this Act referred to as "the repealed
enactment") is repealed.
(2) The Federal Board of Inland Revenue established pursuant to the repealed en-
actment is dissolved.
(3) The repeal of the enactment specified in subsection (1) of this section shall not
affect anything done or purported to have been done under the repealed enactment.
63. Savings and transitional provisions relating staff or employees
(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act, a director, employee, staff
or officer, who, immediately before the commencement of this Act held office in the
Federal Board ofInland Revenue (including the Federal Inland Revenue Service) herein-
after referred to as "the former Board") existing immediately before the commencement
of this Act and who has been made an offer of employment by the Service, is deemed to

-- 26 of 41 --

have been transferred to the Service established under this Act on terms and conditions
not less favourable than those obtaining immediately before the commencement of this
Act and service or employment in the former Board is deemed to be service or employ-
ment in the Service established under this Act for purposes of pension.
(2) Every director, employee, staff or officer transferred into the Service by virtue of
subsection (1) of this section shall notify the Service established under this Act in writing
within 60 days after the commencement of this Act or after he receives an offer of ap-
pointment from the Board (which ever is later) of his acceptance and any director, em-
ployee, staff or officer who fails to notify the Service is deemed to have rejected the of-
fer.
(3) Any director, employee, staff or officer referred to in subsection (2) is deemed to
be an employee of the Service established under this Act, beginning on the day that this
Act comes into force and ending on the expiry of the period of grace under subsection (2) or on
the day of his written refusal and the Service established under this Act is deemed to be his
employer for all purposes during that period.
(4) An employee who is not transferred or who refuses the transfer or a job offer
made by the Board established under this Act, as specified in subsection (1) of this sec-
tion, shall be transferred to the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation
for redeployment in the Civil Service of the Federation within the time specified in sub-
section (2) of this section.
64. Other savings and transitional provisions
(1) There shall be vested in the Service established under this Act and without fur-
ther assurance, all assets, funds, resources and other immovable property which immedi-
ately before the commencement of this Act were vested in the former Board existing im-
mediately before the commencement of this Act.
(2) All rights, interest, obligations and liabilities of the former Board existing imme-
diately before the commencement of this Act under any contract or instrument, or in law or in
equity apart from any contract or instrument, shall by virtue of this Act be assigned to and vested
in the Service established under this Act.
(3) Any contract or instrument referred to in subsection (2) of this section shall be of
the same force and effect against or in favour of the Service established under this Act
and shall be enforceable as fully and effectively as if, instead of the former Board exist-
ing immediately before the commencement of this Act, the Service established under this Act had
been named or had been a party.
(4) The Service established under this Act shall be subject to all obligations and li-
abilities to which the former Board existing immediately before the commencement of
this Act was subject immediately before the commencement of this Act, and all other
persons shall as from the commencement of this Act have the same rights, powers and
remedies against the Service as they had against the former Board existing immediately
before the commencement of this Act.
(5) Any proceeding or cause of action pending or existing immediately before the
commencement of this Act by or against the former Board existing immediately before
the commencement of this Act in respect of any right, interest, obligation or liability of
the former Board may be continued, or as the case may require, be commenced and the

-- 27 of 41 --

determination of a court of law, tribunal or other authority or person may be enforced by
or against the service to the same extent that such cause of action or determination might
have been continued, or enforced by or against the former Board as if this Act had not
been made.
(6) Any regulation, order, by-law or notice made or issued or deemed to be made or
issued by, or for the purposes of, the former Board existing immediately before the com-
mencement of this Act shall be deemed to have been made or issued by or for the pur-
poses of the Service and shall continue in force until revoked or as amended, subject to
such modifications as may be applicable to the Service established under this Act.
65. Continuation of Board members
Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Executive Chairman of the former Board is
deemed to have been transferred to the Service established under this Act in the same
capacity.
66. Continuation and completion of disciplinary proceedings
(1) As from the commencement of this Act, any disciplinary proceeding pending or
existing against any employee of the Government who has opted into the service of the
former Board, shall be continued and completed by the Board established under this Act.
(2) An appeal or grievance already filed but which has not been finally disposed of
on the coming into force of this Act shall be dealt with and disposed of in accordance
with the Public Service Rules as if this Act had not come into force.
67. Rights and obligations transferred
(1) The administration and control of all rights, obligations and liabilities that were
under the administration and control of the former Board are hereby transferred to the
Service established under this Act.
(2) The administration of any real property that were immediately before the coming
into force of this section under the administration or administrative responsibility of the
former Board or its agencies or bodies for the purposes of that former Board are trans-
ferred to the Service established under this Act.
(3) All orders, rules, regulations, decisions, directions, licences, authorisations, certi-
ficates, consents, approvals, declarations, designations, permits registration, rates or other
documents that are in force before the coming into force of this Act and that are made or issued by
the Minister, Chairman of the former Board or any person under their control shall continue in
force as if they were made, or issued by the Minister, the Board established under this Act, the
Executive Chairman or an employee of the Service as the case may be, until they expire or are
repealed, replaced, rescinded or altered.
(4) Every reference to the former Board, the Minister, Chairman or any person under
their control or a document issued in the name of the former Board, Minister, Chairman
or employee of the former Board to be read, unless the context otherwise requires, as a
reference to the Service, the Minister, Board, Executive Chairman, or an employee of the
Service established under this Act, as the case may be.

-- 28 of 41 --

(5) Every affidavit sworn or document duly certified by an officer in the Service of
the Federal Board of Inland Revenue before the coming into force of this Act has the
same probative value as if it were sworn or certified by an employee of the Service on or
after that day.
68. Relevance of other laws
(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, the relevant provisions of all existing
enactments including, but not limited to, the laws in the First Schedule shall be read with
such modifications as to bring them into conformity with the provisions of this Act.
[First Schedule.]
(2) If the provisions of any other law, including the enactments in the First Schedule
are inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, the provisions of this Act shall prevail
and the provisions of that other law shall to the extent of the inconsistency be void.
69. Interpretation
In this Act-
"authorised officer" means any person employed in the Service or, for the time be-
ing, performing duties in relation to tax who has been specifically authorised by the
Board or the Executive Chairman to perform or carry out specific functions under this
Act;
"Board" means the management board of the Service established under section 3 (1)
of this Act;
"book" includes any register, document or other record of information and any ac-
count or accounting record however compiled, recorded or stored, whether in written or
printed form or micro-film, digital, magnetic or electronic form or otherwise;
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Board appointed pursuant to section 3 (2) (a)
of this Act;
"consultants" includes accountants, legal practitioners or any other recognised pro-
fessionals that have been certified by their relevant professional bodies in Nigeria;
"document" includes any record of information supporting accounts and accounting
records, including reports or correspondences or memoranda or minutes of meeting,
however compiled, recorded or stored, whether in written or printed form or micro-film,
digital, magnetic, electronic or optical form or otherwise and all types of information
stored in computer and any other similar equipment;
"Executive Chairman" means the Executive Chairman of the Service appointed un-
der section 11 of this Act;
"Government" means the Government of the Federation and shall include the Fed-
eral Capital Territory or, as the case may be, a Government of a State;

-- 29 of 41 --

"gross misconduct" referred to in section 5 (g) has the meaning ascribed to it in the
Public Service Rules;
"member" means a member of the Board appointed under section 3 of this Act and
includes the Chairman;
"Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibility for matters relating to fi-
nance and "Ministry" shall be construed accordingly;
"non-oil revenue collected" shall be construed to refer to all revenues collected
other than revenue derivable from petroleum profit tax;
"officer" means any person employed in the Service;
"person" includes a company or body corporate and any unincorporated body of
persons;
"President" means the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria;
"private dwelling" means any building or part of a building occupied as residential
accommodation (including any garage, shed and other building used in connection
therewith);
"Service" means the Federal Inland Revenue Service established under section 1 of
this Act;
"Special Purpose Tax Officer" for this purpose refers to specially designated tax of-
ficers for the purpose of tax investigation and tax enforcement who shall be appointed
from time to time and shall have the powers of Police Officers;
"tax" includes any duty, levy or revenue accruable to the Government in full or in
part under this Act, the laws listed in the First Schedule to this Act or any other enact-
ment or law;
"taxable person" includes an individual or body of individuals, family, corporations
sole, trustee or executor or a person who carries out an economic activity in a place, a
person exploiting tangible or intangible property for the purpose of obtaining income by
way of trade or business or person or agency of government acting in that capacity.
70. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Federal Inland Revenue Service (Establishment) Act, 2007.

-- 30 of 41 --