1. Establishment and objects of Federal Universities of Technology

(1) There are hereby established the following universities of technology, that is-

(a)       the Federal University of Technology, Akure;

(b)       the Federal University of Technology, Minna;

(c)        the Federal University of Technology, Owerri;

[1990 No. 37.]

(d)       the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi; and

(e)        Federal University of Technology, Yola.

(2) Each University shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a com-
mon seal and may sue or be sued in its corporate name.

(3) The objects of each University shall be-

(a)      to encourage the advancement of learning and to hold out to all persons with-
out distinction of race, creed, sex or political conviction, the opportunity of ac-
quiring a higher education in technology;

(b)      to develop and offer academic and professional programmes leading to the
award of diplomas, first degrees, post-graduate research and higher degrees
which emphasise planning, adaptive, technical, maintenance, developmental and productive skills in the engineering, scientific, agricultural, medical, and
allied professional disciplines with the aim of producing socially mature men
and women with capability not only to understand, use and adapt existing
technology, but also to improve on it and develop new ones;

(c)       to act as agents and catalysts, through post-graduate training, research and innovation for the effective and economic utilisation, exploitation and conserva-
tion of the country's natural, economic and human resources;

(d)      to offer to the general population, as a form of public service, the results of
training and research and to foster the practical applications of these results;

(e)        to establish appropriate relationships with other national institutions involved
in training, research and development of technologies;

(f)        to identify the technological problems and needs of the society and to find so-
lutions to them within the context of overall national development;

(g)      to provide and promote sound basic scientific training as a foundation for the
development of technology and applied sciences, taking into account indige-
nous culture and the need to enhance national unity; and

(h)      to undertake any other activities appropriate for a university of technology of
the highest standard.

2. Constitution and principal officers of each University (1) Each University shall consist of-

(a)       a Chancellor;

(b)       a Pro-Chancellor and a Council;

(c)        a Vice-Chancellor and a Senate;

(d)       a body to be called Congregation;

(e)        a body to be called Convocation;

(f)        the campuses and colleges of the University;

(g)       the schools, institutes and other teaching and research units of the University;

(h)      the persons holding the offices constituted by the First Schedule to this Act
other than those mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (c) of this subsection;

(i)        all graduates and undergraduates of the University; and

(j)        all other persons who are members of the university in accordance with provi-
sions made by statute in that behalf.

(2) The First Schedule to this Act shall have effect with respect to the principal offi-
cers of each University therein mentioned.

[First Schedule.]

(3) Subject to section 5 of this Act provision shall be made by statute with respect to
the constitution of the Council, the Senate, Congregation and Convocation.

3. Powers of each University and their exercise

(1) For the carrying out of its objects as specified in section 1 of this Act each Uni-
versity shall have power-

(a)       to establish such campuses, colleges, institutes, schools, extra-mural depart-
ments and other teaching and research units within the University as may from time to time be deemed necessary or desirable subject to the approval of the National Universities Commission;

(b)      to institute professorships, readerships or associate professorships, lecture-
ships, and other posts and offices and to make appointments thereto;

(c)       to institute and award fellowships, scholarships, exhibitions, bursaries, medals,
prizes and other titles, distinctions, awards and forms of assistance;

(d)       to provide for the discipline and welfare of members of the University;

(e)       to hold examinations and grant degrees, diplomas, certificates and other dis-
tinctions to persons who have pursued a course of study approved by the Uni-
versity and have satisfied such other requirements as the University may lay
down;

(f)        to grant honorary degrees, fellowships or academic titles;

(g)      to demand and receive from any student or any other person attending the Uni-
versity for the purpose of instruction, such fees as the University may from
time to time determine subject to the overall directives of the Minister;

(h)      subject to section 19 of this Act, to acquire, hold, grant, charge or otherwise
deal with or dispose of movable and immovable property wherever situate;

(i)        to accept gifts, legacies and donations, but without obligation to accept the
same for a particular purpose unless it approves the terms and conditions at-
taching thereto;

(j)        to enter into contracts, establish trusts, act as trustee, solely or jointly with any other person, and employ and act through agents;

(k)       to erect, provide, equip and maintain libraries, laboratories, lecture halls, halls
of residence, refectories, sports grounds, playing fields and other buildings or
things necessary, suitable or convenient for any of the objects of the University;

(I)         to hold public lectures and to undertake printing, publishing and book selling;

(m)      subject to any limitations or conditions imposed by statute, to invest any mon-
eys appertaining to the University by way of endowment, not being immedi-
ately required for current expenditure, in any investments or securities or in the
purchase or improvement of land, with power from time to time, to vary any
such investments and to deposit any moneys for the time being not invested,
with any bank on deposit or current account;

(n)      to borrow, whether on interest or not and if need be upon the security of any or
all of the property, movable or immovable, of the University, such moneys as
the Council may from time to time in its discretion find it necessary or expedi-
ent to borrow or to guarantee any loan, advances or credit facilities;

(0)       to make gifts for any charitable purpose;

(P)       to do anything which it is authorised or required by this Act or by statute to do; and

(q)      to do all such acts or things, whether or not incidental to the foregoing powers,
as may advance the objects of the University.

(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act and of the statutes and without prejudice to
section 7 (2) of this Act, the powers conferred on the University by subsection (1) of this
section shall be exercisable on behalf of the University by the Councilor by the Senate or
in any other manner which may be authorised by the statute.

(3) The power of the University to establish further campuses and colleges within the
University shall be exercisable by statute and not otherwise.

4. Functions of the Chancellor and Pro-Chancellor

(1) The Chancellor shall, in relation to each University, take precedence before all
other members of the University, and when he is present, shall preside at all meetings of
Convocation held for conferring degrees.

(2) The Pro-Chancellor shall, in relation to each University, take precedence before
all other members of the University, except the Chancellor and except the Vice-
Chancellor when acting as chairman of Congregation or Convocation and the Pro-
Chancellor shall, when he is present, be the chairman at all meetings of the Council.

5. Composition of the Council of each University The Council of each University shall consist of-[1996 No. 25.]

(a)       the Pro-Chancellor;

(b)       the Vice-Chancellor;

(c)        the Deputy Vice-Chancellor;

(d)       one person from the Ministry responsible for education;

(e)        nine persons representing a variety of interests and broadly representative of

the whole Federation to be appointed by the President;

(f)        four persons appointed by the Senate from among its members;

(g)       two persons appointed by Congregation from among its members;

(h)       one person appointed by Convocation from among its members.

6. Functions of the Council and its Finance and General Purposes Committee

(1) Subject 10 the provisions of this Act relating to the Visitor, the Council shall be
the governing body of each University and shall be charged with the general control and
superintendence of the policy, finances and property of the University.

(2) There shall be a committee of the Council, to be known as the Finance and Gen-
eral Purposes Committee, which shall, subject to the directions of the Council, exercise
control over the property and expenditure of the University and perform such other func-
tions of the Council as the Council may from time to time delegate to it.

(3) Provision shall be made by statute with respect to the constitution of the Finance
and General Purposes Committee.

(4) The Council shall ensure that proper accounts of the University are kept and that
the accounts of the University are audited annually by an independent firm of auditors
approved by the Council and that an annual report is published by the University together
with certified copies of the said accounts as audited.

(5) Subject to this Act and the statutes, the Council and the Finance and General Pur-
poses Committee may each make rules for the purpose of exercising any of their respec-
tive functions or of regulating their own procedure.

(6) Rules made under subsection (5) of this section by the Finance and General Pur-
poses Committee shall not come into force unless approved by the Council; and in so far
and to the extent that any rules so made by that Committee conflict with any directions
given by the Council, whether before or after the coming into force of the rules in ques-
tion, the directions of the Council shall prevail.

(7) There shall be paid to the members respectively of the Council, the Finance and
General Purposes Committee and of any other committee set up by the Council, allow-
ances in respect of travelling and other reasonable expenses, at such rates as may from
time to time be fixed by the Minister.

(8) The Council shall meet as and when necessary for the performance of its func-
tions under this Act and shall meet at least three times in every year.

(9) If requested in writing by any five members of the Council, the chairman shall
within 28 days after the receipt of such request call a meeting of the Council.

(10) Any request made under subsection (9) of this section shall specify the business
to be considered at the meeting and no business not so specified shall be transacted at that
meeting.

7.   Functions of the Senate

(1) Subject to section 6 of this Act and subsections (3) and (4) of this section and to
the provisions of this Act relating to the Visitor, it shall be the general function of the
Senate to organise and control the teaching by the University, the admission of students
where no other enactment provides to the contrary and the discipline of students; and to
promote research at the University.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1) of this section and subject as
there mentioned, it shall in particular be the function of the Senate to make provision for-

(a)        the establishment, organisation and control of campuses, colleges, schools,
institutes and other teaching and research units of the University and the allo-
cation of responsibility for different branches of learning;

(b)        the organisation and control of courses of study at the University and of the
examinations held in conjunction with those courses, including the appoint-
ment of examiners, both internal and external;

(c)        the award of degrees, and such other qualifications as may be prescribed, in
connection with examinations held as aforesaid;

(d)          the making of recommendations to the Council with respect to the award to
any person of an honorary fellowship or honorary degree or the title of profes-
sor emeritus;

(e)         the establishment, organisation and control of halls of residence and similar
institutions at the University;

(f)           the supervision of the welfare of students at the University and the regulation
of their conduct;

(g)        the granting of fellowships, scholarships, prizes and similar awards in so far as
the awards are within the control of the University; and

(h)       determining what descriptions of dress shall be academic dress for the pur-
poses of the University, and regulating the use of academic dress.

(3) The Senate shall not establish any new campus, college, school, department, in-
stitute or other teaching and research units of the University, or any hall of residence or
similar institution at the University without the approval of the Council.

(4) Subject to this Act and the statutes, the Senate may make regulations for the pur-
pose of exercising any function conferred on it either by the foregoing provisions of this
section or otherwise or for the purpose of making provision for any matter for which pro-
vision by regulations is authorised or required by this Act or by statute.

(5) Regulations shall provide that at least one of the persons appointed as the exam-
iners at each final or professional examination held in conjunction with any course of
study at the University is not a teacher at the University but is a teacher of the branch of
learning to which the course relates at some other university of high repute or a person
engaged in practising the profession in a reputable organisation or institution.

(6) Subject to a right of appeal to the Council from a decision of the Senate under this
subsection, the Senate may deprive any person of any degree, diploma or other award of
the University which has been conferred upon him if after due enquiry he is shown to
have been guilty of dishonorable or scandalous conduct in gaining admission into the
University or obtaining that award.

8. Functions of t
he Vice-Chancellor

(1) The Vice-Chancellor shall, in relation to each University, take precedence before
all other members of the University except the Chancellor and, subject to section 4 of this
Act, except the Pro-Chancellor and any other person for the time being acting as chair-
man of the Council.

(2) Subject to sections 6, 7 and 14 of this Act, the Vice-Chancellor shall have the
general function, in addition to any other functions conferred on him by this Act or other-
wise, of directing the activities of the University and shall be the chief executive and aca-
demic officer of the University and ex-officio chairman of the Senate.

Transfer of property, etc., to each University

9. Transfer of property

(1) All property held by or on behalf of the provisional council of each University
shall, by virtue of this subsection and without further assurance, vest in the University
and be held by it for the purpose of the University.

(2) The provisions of the Second Schedule to this Act shall have effect with respect
to, and to matters arising from, the transfer of property by this section and with respect to
the other matters mentioned in that Schedule.

[Second Schedule.]

Statutes of each University

10. Power of each University to make statutes

(1) Subject to this Act, each University may make statutes for any of the following
purposes, that is to say-

(a)      making provision with respect to the composition and constitution of any
authority of the University;

(b)      specifying and regulating the powers and duties of any authority of the Univer-
sity, and regulating any other matter connected with the University or any of
its authorities;

(c)       regulating the admission of students (where no other enactment provides to the
contrary), and their discipline and welfare;

(d)      determining whether any particular matter is to be treated as an academic or a
non-academic matter for the purposes of this Act and of any statute, regulation
or other instrument made thereunder; or

(e)       making provision for any other matter for which provision by statute is
authorised or required by this Act.

(2) Subject to section 24 (6) of this Act, the Interpretation Act shall apply in relation
to any statute made under this section as it applies to a subsidiary instrument within the
meaning of section 29 (1) of that Act.

[Cap. I23.]

(3) The Statute contained in the Third Schedule to this Act shall be deemed to have
come into force on the commencement of this Act and shall be deemed to have been
made under this section by each University.

[Third Schedule.]

(4) The power to make statutes conferred by this section shall not be prejudiced or
limited in any way by reason of the inclusion or omission of any matter in or from the
statue contained in the Third Schedule to this Act or any subsequent statute.

1
1.
Mode of exercising power to make statutes

(1) The power of each University to make statutes shall be exercised in accordance
with the provisions of this section and not otherwise.

(2) A proposed statute shall not become law unless it has been approved-

(a)       at a meeting of the Senate, by the votes of not less than two thirds of the mem-
bers present and voting; and

(b)       at a meeting of the Council, by the votes of not less than two thirds of the
members present and voting.

(3) A proposed statute may originate either in the Senate or in the Council, and may
be approved as required by subsection (2) of this section by either one of those bodies
before the other.

(4) A statute which-

(a)       makes provision for or alters the composition or constitution of the Council,
the Senate or any other authority of the University; or

(b)       provides for the establishment of a new campus or college or for the amend-
ment or revocation of any statute whereby a campus or college is established,

shall not come into operation unless it has been approved by the President.

(5) For the purposes of section 2 (2) of the Interpretation Act, a statute shall be
treated as being made on the date on which it is duly approved by the Council after hav-
ing been duly approved by the Senate, or on the date on which it is duly approved by the
Senate after having been duly approved by the Council, as the case may be or, in the case
of a statute falling within subsection (4) of this section, on the date on which it is ap-
proved by the President.

[Cap. I23.]

(6) In the event of any doubt or dispute arising at any time-

(a)       as to the meaning of any provision of a statute; or

(b)      as to whether any matter is for the purposes of this Act an academic or non-
academic matter as they relate to such doubt or dispute,

the matter may be referred to the Visitor, who shall take such advice and make such deci-
sion thereon as he shall think fit.

(7) The decision of the Visitor on any matter referred to him under subsection (6) of
this section shall be binding upon the authorities, staff and students of the University, and
where any question as to the meaning of any provision of a statute has been decided by
the Visitor under that subsection, no question as to the meaning of that provision shall be
entertained by any court of law in Nigeria.

(8) Nothing in subsection (7) of this section shall affect any power of a court of com-
petent jurisdiction to determine whether any provision of a statute is wholly or partly void
as being ultra vires or as being inconsistent with the Constitution of the Federal Republic
of Nigeria 1999.

[Cap. C23.]

12. Proof of statute
s

A statute may be proved in any court by the production of a copy thereof bearing or
having affixed to it a certificate purporting to be signed by the Vice-Chancellor or the secretary to the Council to the effect that the copy is a true copy of a statute of the University.

Supervision and discipline

13.
The Visitor

(1) The President shall be the Visitor of each University.

(2) The Visitor shall as often as the circumstances may require, not being less than
once every five years, conduct a visitation of the University or direct that such a visitation
be conducted by such person or persons as the Visitor may deem fit and in respect of any
of the affairs of the University.

(3) It shall be the duty of the bodies and persons comprising the University to make
available to the Visitor, and to any other person conducting a visitation in pursuance of
this section, such facilities and assistance as he or they may reasonably require for the
purposes of a visitation.

14.
Removal of certain members of Council

(1) If it appears to the Council that a member of the Council (other than the Pro-
Chancellor or the Vice-Chancellor) should be removed from office on the ground of mis-
conduct or inability to perform the functions of his office or employment, the Council
shall make a recommendation to that effect through the Minister to the President, and if
the President, after making such enquiries (if any) as he may consider appropriate, ap-
proves the recommendation, he may direct the removal of the person in question from
office.

(2) It shall be the duty of the Minister to use his best endeavours to cause a copy of
the instrument embodying a direction under subsection (1) of this section to be served as
soon as reasonably practicable on the person to whom it relates.

1
5.
Removal and discipline of academic, administrative and professional staff

(1) If it appears to the Council that there are reasons for believing that any person
employed as a member of the academic, administrative or professional staff of the Uni-
versity, other than the Vice-Chancellor, should be removed from his office or employ-
ment on the ground of misconduct or of inability to perform the functions of his office or
employment, the Council shall-

(a)       give notice of those reasons to the person in question;

(b)      afford him an opportunity of making representations in person on the matter to
the Council; and

(c)       if he so requests or any three members of the Council so request within the
period of one month beginning with the date of the notice, make arrangements-

(i)     for a joint committee of the Council and the Senate to investigate the
matter and to report on it to the Council; and

(ii)     for the person in question to be afforded an opportunity of appearing
before and being heard by the investigating committee with respect to the matter,

and if the Council, after considering the report of the investigating committee, is satisfied
that the person in question should be removed as aforesaid, the Council may so remove
him by an instrument in writing signed on the directions of the Council.

(2) The Vice-Chancellor may, in a case of misconduct by a member of the staff
which in the opinion of the Vice-Chancellor is prejudicial to the interests of the Univer-
sity, suspend such member and any such suspension shall forthwith be reported to the
Council.

(3) For good cause, any member of the staff may be suspended from his duties or his
appointment may be terminated by the Council; and for the purposes of this subsection
"good cause" means-

(a)              conviction for any offence which the Council considers to be such as to render
the person concerned unfit for the discharge of the functions of his office; or

(b)              any physical or mental incapacity which the Council, after obtaining medical
advice, considers to be such as to render the person concerned unfit to continue to hold his office; or

(c)               conduct of a scandalous or other disgraceful nature which the Council consid-
ers to be such as to render the person concerned unfit to continue to hold his
office; or

(d)              conduct which the Council considers to be such as to constitute failure or in-
ability of the person concerned to discharge the functions of his office or to
comply with the terms and conditions of his service; or

(e)                conduct which the Council considers to be generally of such nature as to ren-
der the continued appointment or service of the person concerned prejudicial
or detrimental to the interest of the University.

(4) Any person suspended pursuant to subsection (2) or (3) of this section shall be on
half pay and the Council shall before the expiration of a period of three months after the
date of such suspension consider the case against that person and come to a decision as
to-

(a)              whether to continue such person's suspension and if so on what terms (in-
cluding the proportion of his emoluments to be paid to him);

(b)              whether to reinstate such person, in which case the Council shall restore his
full emoluments to him with effect from the date of suspension;

(c)               whether to terminate the appointment of the person concerned, in which case such a person shall not be entitled to the proportion of his emoluments withheld during the period of suspension; or

(d)              whether to take such lesser disciplinary action against such person (including
the restoration of such proportion of his emoluments that might have been
withheld) as the Council may determine.

(5) In any case where the Council, pursuant to this section, decides to continue a per-
son's suspension or decides to take further disciplinary action against a person, the Coun-
cil shall before the expiration of a period of three months from such decision come to a
final determination in respect of the case concerning any such person.

(6) It shall be the duty of the person by whom an instrument of removal is signed in
pursuance of subsection (1) of this section to use his best endeavours to cause a copy of
the instrument to be served as soon as reasonably practicable on the person to whom it
relates.

(7) Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this section shall-

(a)       apply to any directive given by the Visitor in consequence of any visitation; or

(b)       prevent the Council from making regulations for the discipline of other categories of workers of the University as may be prescribed.

16.
Removal of examiners

(1) If, on the recommendation of the Senate, it appears to the Vice-Chancellor that a
person appointed as an examiner for any examination of the University ought to be re-
moved from his office or appointment, then, except in such cases as may be prescribed,
the Vice-Chancellor may, after affording the examiner an opportunity of making repre-
sentations in person on the matter to the Vice-Chancellor, remove the examiner from the
appointment by an instrument in writing signed by the Vice-Chancellor.

(2) Subject to the provisions of regulations made in pursuance of section 7 (5) of this
Act, the Vice-Chancellor may, on the recommendation of the Senate, appoint an appro-
priate person as examiner in the place of the examiner removed in pursuance of subsec-
tion (1) of this section.

(3) It shall be the duty of the Vice-Chancellor, on signing an instrument of removal in
pursuance of this section, to use his best endeavours to cause a copy of the instrument to
be served as soon as reasonably practicable on the person to whom it relates.

17.
Discipline of students

(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, where it appears to the Vice-Chancellor
that any student of the University has been guilty of misconduct, the Vice-Chancellor
may, without prejudice to any other disciplinary powers conferred on him by statute or
regulations, direct-

(a)      that the student shall not, during such period as may be specified in the direc-
tion, participate in such activities of the University, or make use of such facili-
ties of the University, as may be so specified; or

(b)      that the activities of the student shall, during such period as may be specified
in the direction, be restricted in such manner as may be so specified; or

(c)       that the student be rusticated for such period as may be specified in the direc-
tion; or

(d)        that the student be expelled from the University.

(2) Where a direction is given under subsection (1) (c) or (d) of this section in respect
of any student, that student may, within the prescribed period and in the prescribed man-
ner, appeal to the Council; and where such an appeal is brought, the Council shall, after
causing such inquiry to be made in the matter as the Council considers just, either con-
firm or set aside the direction or modify it in such manner as the Council thinks fit.

(3) The fact that an appeal from a direction is brought in pursuance of subsection (2)
of this section shall not affect the operation of the direction while the appeal is pending.

(4) The Vice-Chancellor may delegate his powers under this section to a disciplinary
board consisting of such members of the University as he may nominate.

(5) Nothing in this section shall be construed as preventing the restriction or termina-
tion of a student's activities at the University otherwise than on the ground of miscon-
duct.

(6) A direction under subsection (1) (a) of this section may be combined with a di-
rection under subsection (1) (b) of this section.

Miscellaneous and general

18. Ex
clusion of discrimination on account of race, religion, etc.

(1) No person shall be required to satisfy requirements as to any of the following
matters, that is to say, race (including ethnic grouping), sex, place of birth or of family
origin, or religious or political persuasion, as a condition of becoming or continuing to be
a student at the University, the holder of any degree of the University or of any appoint-
ment or employment at the University, or a member of any body established by virtue of
this Act; and no person shall be subjected to any disadvantage or accorded any advantage
in relation to the University, by reference to any of those matters.

(2) Nothing in subsection (1) of this section shall be construed as preventing the Uni-
versity from imposing any disability or restriction on any of the persons mentioned in that
subsection where such person wilfully refuses or fails on grounds of religious belief to
undertake any duty generally and uniformly imposed on all such persons or any group of
them which duty, having regard to its nature and the special circumstances pertaining
thereto, is in the opinion of the University reasonably justifiable in the national interest.

19. Restriction o
n disposal of land by University

Without prejudice to the provisions of the Land Use Act, a University shall not dis-
pose of or charge any land or an interest in any land (including any land transferred to the
University by this Act) except with the prior written consent, either general or special, of
the President:

[Cap. L5.]

Provided that such consent shall not be required in the case of any lease or tenancy
at a rack-rent for a term not exceeding 21 years or any lease or tenancy to a member of
the University for residential purpose.

20. Quorum and
procedure of bodies established by this Act

Except as may be otherwise provided by statute or by regulations, the quorum and
procedure of any body of persons established by this Act shall be as determined by that
body.

21. Appointment of committees, etc.

(1) Any body of persons established by this Act shall, without prejudice to the
generality of the powers of that body, have power to appoint committees, which need not consist exclusively of members of that body, and to authorise a committee established by
it-

(a)       to exercise, on its behalf, such of its functions as it may determine;

(b)      to co-opt members, and may direct whether or not co-opted members (if any)
shall be entitled to vote in that committee.

(2) Any two or more such bodies may arrange for the holding of joint meetings of
those bodies, or for the appointment of committees consisting of members of those bod-
ies, for the purpose of considering any matter within the competence of those bodies or
any of them, and either of dealing with it or of reporting on it to those bodies or any of
them.

(3) Except as may be otherwise provided by statute or by regulations, the quorum and
procedure of a committee established or meeting held in pursuance of this section, shall
be such as may be determined by the body or bodies which have decided to establish the
committee or hold the meeting.

(4) Nothing in the provisions of subsections (1), (2) and (3) of this section shall be
construed as-

(a)      enabling the statutes to be made otherwise than in accordance with section 11
of this Act; or

(b)      enabling the Senate to empower any other body to make regulations or to
award degrees or other qualifications.

(5) The Pro-Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor shall be members of every commit-
tee of which the members are wholly or partly appointed by the Council (other than a
committee appointed to inquire into the conduct of the officer in question); and the Vice-
Chancellor shall be a member of every committee of which the members are wholly or
partly appointed by the Senate.

2