2. Interpretation

(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"Accountant-General" means the Accountant-General of the Federation;

"appropriation Act" means the Act enacted in each year the principal purpose of
which is the appropriation of public moneys for such services as are specified in such
Act;

"Consolidated Revenue Fund" means the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the Fed-
eration established by section 80 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria
1999 (hereinafter caIled "the Constitution");

[Cap. C23.]

"Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibility for matters relating to fi-
nance;

"public moneys" include-

(a)       the public revenues of the Federation; and

(b)      moneys held in his official capacity, whether temporarily or otherwise, and
whether subject to any trust or specific allocation or not, by any officer in the
public service of the Federation or any State on behalf of the Government of
the Federation, or by any agent of the Government, either alone or jointly with any other person;

"statutory expenditure" with reference to subsection 2 of this section means-

[L.N. 139 of 1965.]

(a)              the expenditure charged on the Consolidated Revenue Fund by any provision
of the Constitution; and

(b)              such other expenditure as shall from time to time, be charged by law on the
Consolidated Revenue Fund or the general revenue and assets of the Federa-
tion or on the other public funds of the Federation,

and shall include expenditure which constitutes such a charge by virtue of the provisions
of this Act;

"supplementary appropriation Act" means any Act the principal purpose of which
is the appropriation of moneys in supplementation of the appropriation already made by
an appropriation Act.

(2) The expenditure of moneys appropriated or granted by an Appropriation Act or a
supplementary Appropriation Act shall not by virtue only of such Appropriation Act or
supplementary Appropriation Act be deemed to amount to a charge on the fund out of
which such expenditure is authorised to take place, and such expenditure shall accord-
ingly not be comprised within the definition of statutory expenditure contained in sub-
section (1) of this Act.

(3) A reference to the Minister in this Act in relation to the signing or issue of a war-
rant shall imply a similar authority enabling the President to sign or issue such warrant.
[L.N. 139 of 1965.]

PART I

General supervision and control

3. Legislative control and management of the public finances

The Minister shall so supervise the expenditure and finances of the Federation as to
ensure that a full account is made to the Legislature and its financial control is maintained

and for such purpose shall, subject to the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria 1999 and of this Act, have the management of the Consolidated

Revenue Pund and the supervisron, control and dlfechon of all matters relating to the
financial affairs of the Federation which are not by law assigned to any other Minister.

[Cap. C23.]

4. Minister's instructions to be complied with, and powers to inspect, etc.

(1) Every person concerned in or responsible for the collection, receipt, custody, is-
sue or payment of public moneys, stores, stamps, investments, securities, or negotiable
instruments, whether the property of Government or on deposit with or entrusted to Gov-
ernment or any public officer in his official capacity either alone or jointly with any pub-
lic officer or any other person, shall obey all instructions that may, from time to time, be
issued by the Minister or by direction of the Minister in respect to the custody and han-
dling of the same and accounting therefor.

(2) The Permanent Secretary exercising supervision over any department of Govern-
ment for which the Minister is charged with responsibility, and any other officer subordi-
nate to such Permanent Secretary, shall be entitled to inspect all offices and shall be given
access at all times thereto and shall be given all available information he may require
with regard to the moneys and property specified in subsection (1) of this section and to
all documents and records in respect thereof, so far as may in any way be necessary in the
opinion of the Minister for the purpose of compliance with the provisions of subsec-
tion (1) of this section and section 3 of this Act.

PART II

The Consolidated Revenue Fund

5. Management of Consolidated Fund

The management of the Consolidated Revenue Fund shall be conducted in accordance
with the Financial Provisions of the Constitution and this Act.

6. Authorised issues from the Fund

(1) It shall be lawful for the Minister to authorise by warrant the issue from the Con-
solidated Revenue Fund of moneys necessary to meet statutory expenditure or to meet the
cost of any purpose for which any sum has been appropriated in accordance with any Act.

(2) In respect of the issue of moneys other than statutory expenditure, no authority
shall be given under subsection (1) of this section in excess of the sum appropriated for
the purpose concerned.

(3) Notwithstanding the issue of a warrant, the President or the Minister may limit or
suspend expenditure (not being statutory expenditure) with or without cancellation of the
warrant if in his opinion financial exigencies or the public interest require.

7. Erroneous receipts

The repayment of any moneys received in error by the Consolidated Revenue Fund is
hereby charged on the Fund, and the Minister may by warrant authorise an issue to effect
such repayment.

8. Losses

Where a loss has occurred of any moneys forming part of the Consolidated Revenue
Fund, or it is necessary to make a further issue therefrom in respect of moneys already
issued therefrom which have been misappropriated or lost, or it is necessary to make an
issue therefrom to effect the replacement of any Government property which has been
misappropriated or lost, then, subject to any express provision of this or any other Act, an adjustment of the Fund or an issue from the Fund for such purpose shall only be effected
by the issue of a warrant by the Minister under the authority of an appropriation or sup-
plementary Appropriation Act.

PART III

Investments

9.
Authorisation of investments

(1) The Consolidated Revenue Fund, and any other public fund of the Federation
subject to any express provisions of law regulating any such public fund, may in part
consist of deposits with a bank, or with the Joint Consolidated Fund, either at call or
subject to notice not exceeding six months, or of any investments in which a trustee in
Nigeria may lawfully invest trust funds, and the disposition of moneys of the Consoli-
dated Revenue Fund or of such other public fund (subject as aforesaid) for any such pur-
pose shall need no legislative authority other than that contained in this section and may
be made by the Accountant-General or the State Agents for Oversea Governments and
Administration in accordance with specific instructions issued by the Minister.

(2) No moneys deposited or invested otherwise than in accordance with subsec-
tion (1) of this section may form part of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, or of any other
public fund of the Federation, and the disposition of any moneys from that Fund or those
funds for any purpose other than the form of deposit or investment specified in that sub-
section shall be made in accordance with the procedure prescribed in this Act or in accor-
dance with the provisions of law regulating the fund in question.

10. Investments
General. Procedure concerning these

(1) The Accountant-General shall maintain under the designation of Investments
General a record of certain investments.

(2) Investments General shall consist of-

(a)      those investments forming part of Consolidated Revenue Fund by virtue of
section 9 of this Act;

(b)      any investments held in respect of moneys being part of the Contingencies
Fund referred to in section 15 of this Act;

(c)       such investments held in respect of the public funds of the Federation specified
in the First Schedule to this Act that the Minister shall designate in writing:

Provided that the Minister shall not designate any fund in respect of which by vir-
tue of the provisions of law regulating such fund neither the receipts and outgoings nor
the appreciation and depreciation of the investments forming part of the fund may accrue
or does accrue to the Consolidated Revenue Fund.

[First Schedule.]

1
1.
Income of Investments General

(1) All income accruing to Investments General shall accrue to the Consolidated
Revenue Fund and shall be included in the annual statement of revenue of the Federation
for each financial year.

(2) This section shall come into operation in respect of investments included in the
record of Investments General at any time during the period of twelve months ending the
31 st day of March, 1959, and in respect of all interest accruing within such period.

1
2.
Fluctuation in value of Investments General

(1) The Accountant-General shall in each year value any securities forming part of
Investments General by assigning thereto the mean market price of such securities at the
dose of business on the last day in the year for which such information is available.

(2) Any appreciation or depreciation arising from the valuation of such securities, to-
gether with any profits or losses arising from the sale or redemption of such securities,
shall be credited or debited direct to the Consolidated Revenue Fund, and be shown as an
addition to or deduction from the opening balance of the Consolidated Revenue Fund in
the annual statement of assets and liabilities of the Federation.

PART IV

Legislative authorisation of expenditure
1
3.
Annual estimates in Appropriation Bill

(1) In accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, the Minister shall cause to
be prepared in each financial year estimates of the revenues and expenditure of the Fed-
eration for the next following financial year, which shall be presented to the President for
approval and when approved by him shall be laid before each House of the National As-
sembly at a meeting commencing before the lst day of January of the financial year to
which they relate.

[L.N. 139 of 1965.]

(2) The heads of expenditure contained in the estimates (other than expenditure
charged upon the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the Federation by the Constitution) shall
be included in a bill to be known as an Appropriation Bill, providing for the issue from
the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the sums necessary to meet that expenditure and the
appropriation of those sums for the purposes specified therein.

1
4.
Supplementary provision

If in respect of any financial year it is found that-

(a)       the amount appropriated by the Appropriation Act for any purpose is insufficient; or

(b)        a need has arisen for expenditure for a purpose for which no amount has been

appropriated by the Act,

a supplementary estimate showing the sums required shall be laid before each House of
the National Assembly and the heads of any such expenditure shall be included in a Sup-
plementary Appropriation Bill.

15. Contingen
cies Fund

(1) There shall be provided out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund upon the corning
into operation of this Act the sum of one hundred million naira or such other sums as may
be approved by the National Assembly for the establishment of a fund to be known as the
Contingencies Fund.

(2) The Contingencies Fund may be utilised for making moneys available to meet
expenditure (other than statutory expenditure as aforesaid) which is not provided for in
the Appropriation Act for the current year, and which although otherwise falling to be
met out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund cannot be postponed, or cannot without seri-
ous injury to the public interest be postponed, until a supplementary Appropriation Act
providing for it can be passed into law.

16. Unexpended votes to lapse

Subject to any express provision of an Appropriation Act or supplementary Appro-
priation Act, moneys appropriated thereby and not expended shall lapse and accrue to the
Consolidated Revenue Fund at the expiration of the year in respect of which they are ap-
propriated.

1
7. Pro
vision if Appropriation Act not in force

(1) If the Appropriation Act has not come into operation at the commencement of any
financial year, the President may authorise the withdrawal of moneys from the Consoli-
dated Revenue Fund of the Federation for the purpose of meeting expenditure necessary
to carryon the services of the Government of the Federation for a period not exceeding
six months or until the Appropriation Act comes into operation whichever is earlier.

(2) Any moneys so authorised to be withdrawn shall not exceed the amount author-
ised to be withdrawn under the provisions of the Appropriation Act passed by the Na-
tional Assembly for the corresponding period in the immediately preceding financial year
and shall be set off against the amount respectively provided in the Appropriation Act
upon the same coming into operation.

PART V

Other public funds of the Federation

18.
Specification of certain public funds allocated by law

(1) The public funds specified in Part I of the First Schedule to this Act shall be
deemed to have been established with effect from the l st day of April, 1958, and subject
to the provisions of sections 20 and 21 of this Act and the express provisions of law
regulating any such fund, the balances in such funds on that day, and the receipts and
earnings and other items respectively accruing to such funds since that date, shall be
deemed to be allocated by law for the purposes therein specified in respect of each such
fund.

[First Schedule. Part I.]

(2) Whenever moneys are allocated by law to establish a fund or whenever it shall
appear to the Minister that any public fund which is the property of the Federation or
which comes into the possession of the Federation or of any public officer on behalf of

the Federation, but which is not specified in the First Schedule to this Act, is by the pro-
visions of law regulating such fund allocated for a specific purpose, and that for that rea-
son such fund should not form part of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, the Minister shall
by order amend Part II of the First Schedule to this Act by the addition of the title of such
fund and a reference to the specific purpose to which it is allocated.

[First Schedule. Part II.]

(3) The Treasury funds specified in Part III of the First Schedule to this Act shall,
with effect from the 1st day of April, 1958, be deemed to have been established and to be
public funds of the Federation allocated by law for the specific purposes therein specified
in respect of each such fund.

[First Schedule. Part III.]

(4) Moneys coming into the possession of the Federation since the 1st day of April,
1958, which are held on behalf of other persons or bodies and which do not accrue to any
other fund specified in the First Schedule to this Act shall be deemed to have accrued to
and shall be credited to the Treasury Clearance Fund specified in Part III of the said