1. Prohibition of sale of certain food, drugs, cosmetic and devices
(1) No person shall sell, import, manufacture or store any article of food which-
[1999 No. 21.]
(a) 	has in it or upon it any poisonous or harmful substance not being a food addi-
tive or contaminant of a type and within the level permitted by regulations made under
this Act;
(b) 	is unfit for human consumption; or
(c) 	consists in whole or in part of any filthy, disgusting, rotten or diseased substance.
(2) No person shall sell, import, manufacture or store any article of food or any drug
which is adulterated.
[1999 No. 21.]

-- 2 of 18 --

(3) No person shall sell, import, manufacture or store any article of food or any drug
or cosmetic which was manufactured, prepared, preserved, packaged, or stored under
insanitary conditions.
[1999 No. 21.]
(4) No person shall sell, import, manufacture or store any cosmetic which-
(a) 	has in it or upon it any substance which may cause injury to the health of the
user thereof when the cosmetic is used-
(i) 	according to the directions on the label or otherwise accompanying the
cosmetic; or
(ii) 	for such purposes and by such methods of use as are customary or
usual therefor; or
(b) 	consists wholly or in part of any filthy or decomposed substance or of any
foreign matter.
[1999 No. 21.]
(5) No person shall sell, import, manufacture or store any device which, when used
according to the directions on the label or otherwise accompanying the device, or under
such conditions as are customary or usual therefor, may cause injury to the user thereof.
[1999 No. 21.]
2. Prohibition of sale or advertisement of food, etc., as treatment, etc., for certain
diseases
Except as otherwise provided by regulations, no person shall-
(a) 	advertise to the general public any food, drug, cosmetic or device as treatment,
preventative or cure for any of the diseases, disorders or abnormal physical states
specified in the First Schedule to this Act; or
[First Schedule.]
(b) 	sell any food, drug, cosmetic or device that is represented on the label or is
advertised to the general public as a treatment, preventative or cure for any of the
diseases, disorders or abnormal physical states specified in the said First Schedule
to this Act.
[First Schedule.]
3.Prohibition of importation, exportation, distribution, etc., of specified drugs
Except as authorised by regulations, no person shall import into Nigeria or export
therefrom, manufacture, sell, distribute or cause to be distributed (whether as samples or
otherwise) any of the drugs specified in the Second Schedule to this Act.
4. Power of Minister to obtain particulars in respect of certain substances
(1) Where any person carries on any business in the course of which any substance-
(a) 	is used in the preparation of any food, drug or cosmetic; or
(b) 	is imported, produced or sold for use in the preparation of any food, drug or cosmetic,

-- 3 of 18 --

the Minister or any person authorised by the Minister in that behalf may serve on that
person a notice requiring him to furnish to the Minister within such time as may be specified in the
notice such particulars as may be so specified in respect of every substance
which, being a substance or a substance of a class specified in the notice, is in the course
of that business used as mentioned in paragraph (a) of this subsection or imported, pro-
duced or sold for use as mentioned in paragraph (b) of this subsection.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1) of this section, a notice un-
der that subsection may in particular require the furnishing of the following particulars of
any substance to which it applies, that is to say-
(a) 	particulars of the composition of the substance and the chemical formula of
every ingredient thereof;
(b) 	particulars of the manner in which the substance is used or intended to be used
in the preparation of any food, drug or cosmetic;
(c) 	particulars of-
(i) 	any investigations (and over what period of time) carried out by or on
behalf and to the knowledge of the person carrying on the business for
the purpose of determining whether or not the substance or any product
produced when the substance is used as mentioned in paragraph (b) of
this subsection is injurious to or otherwise affects health, and the result
of any such investigations;
(ii) 	any investigations or inquiries (and over what period or time) carried
out by or on behalf and to the knowledge of the person carrying on the
business for the purpose of determining the cumulative effect on the
health of any person consuming in ordinary quantities that substance or
any product produced when the substance is used as mentioned in
paragraph (b) of this subsection.
(3) No person shall disclose any information supplied to the Minister in pursuance of
a notice under subsection (1) of this section except-
(a) 	with the written consent of the person who supplied the information; or
(b) 	in accordance with the directions of the Minister; or
(c) 	for the purposes of any proceedings under this Act.
5. Prohibition of various misleading
practices
No person shall-
(a) 	label, package, treat, process, sell or advertise any food, drug, cosmetic or de-
vice in a manner that is false or misleading or is likely to create a wrong impression as
to its quality, character, value, composition, merit or safety;
(b) 	where a standard has been prescribed for any food, drug, cosmetic or device;
label, package, sell or advertise any substance or article in such a manner that
the substance or article is likely to be mistaken for that food, drug, cosmetic or
device unless the substance or article complies with the prescribed standard;

-- 4 of 18 --

(c) 	where a standard for a drug is contained in any of the publications specified in
the Third Schedule to this Act, label, package, sell or advertise any substance
which is not of the published standard in a manner likely to cause it to be
mistaken for a drug of the published standard;
[Third Schedule.]
(d) 	in the case of drug for which no standard has been prescribed under the regu-
lations or in any of the publications specified in the Third Schedule to this
Act-
(i) 	sell that drug in any manner which is likely to deceive or mislead a
purchaser into thinking that the drug conforms to a standard prescribed
as aforesaid; or
(ii) 	sell that drug as complying with some other standard unless the drug
complies with the professed standard under which it is sold.
6. Manufacture, etc., of food, etc., under unsanitary conditions
No person shall under unsanitary conditions manufacture, prepare, preserve, package
or store for the purpose of selling, any food, drug or cosmetic.
7. Minister's certificate for manufacture, etc., of drugs specified in the Fourth or