2. Interpretation

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Nigeria;

"Government promissory note" means a promissory note issued under section 3 of
this Act;

"Minister" means the Minister for the time being charged with responsibility for
matters relating to finance.

PART III

Issue

3. Issue of promissory notes for the purpose of raising authorised loans

(1) Whenever by any Act whether enacted before or after the coming into operation
of this Act, authority has been or is given to raise any sum of money by way of loan for
any purpose mentioned in that Act, or whenever it is necessary to raise any sum of money
for the purpose of repaying any loan raised by the Federal Government under this or any
other Act, the Minister may, from time to time, raise such sum or part thereof under the
provisions of this Act from Governments of other countries and bodies corporate by the
issue of securities in the form of Government promissory notes.

(2) Subject to subsection (1) of this section, the Governor of the Central Bank may
issue naira denominated notes or other forms of securities or make any arrangement in
respect of outstanding foreign obligations of the Federal Government in the course of
rescheduling or restructuring such obligations.

4. Loans to be charged upon revenue

The principal sums and interest represented or secured by any Government promis-
sory notes are hereby charged upon and shall be payable out of the general revenue and assets of the Federation.

5. Particulars to be published in the Federal
Gazette

The Minister shall, in respect of each loan raised by the issue of Government promis-

sory notes, cause the following particulars to be published in the Federal Gazette-

(a)       the face value of the notes;

(b)       the rate of interest payable on the loan;

(c)       the date of redemption of the notes and, if the Minister has reserved an option to redeem the notes at an earlier date, the fact that he has reserved such an option and the terms and conditions on which the option may be exercised.

6. Issue and effect of promissory notes

(1) Every Government promissory note shall bear the signature of the Minister and of the Accountant-General of the Federation for and on behalf of the Government of the
Federation and shall, when issued, bind the Government of the Federation to pay the
principal sum mentioned in that note and the interest thereon in accordance with the provisions of this Act or in pursuance of an option to redeem that note reserved by the Minister.

(2) Naira denominated notes issued by the Central Bank in accordance with sec-
tion 3 (2) of this Act shall bear the signature of the Governor of the Central Bank and
shall, when issued, bind the Federal Government to pay the principal sum mentioned in
that note and the interest thereon in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

[1989 No. 10.]

7. Transferability

(1) Every Government promissory note shall specify whether or not it is transferable,
and, if transferable, the extent to which and the manner in which it may be transferred.

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Bills of Exchange Act, a Government
promissory note shall not be transferable except to the extent and in the manner specified
in the note.

[Cap. B8.]

8. Appropriation of revenue for payment of principal sum and interest

So long as any principal sum or interest is payable under this Act in respect of any
Government promissory notes, the Minister shall appropriate out of the general revenue
and assets of Nigeria a sum sufficient to meet all principal sums and interest so payable,
and the Central Bank shall thereupon pay such principal sum or interest out of the sum so
appropriated.

9. Payment of principal sum and interest

(1) The principal sum and interest due on any Government promissory note shall be
payable on such dates and, in the case of interest, at such rate as shall be specified in the
note.

(2) Where any amount has become payable on any date as interest due on any Gov-
ernment promissory note, no interest on that amount shall, after that date, be paid or pay-
able by or on behalf of the Federal Government to any person in any circumstances.

1