1. Refiner's licence
Subject to the provisions of this Act, no person shall refine any hydrocarbon oils save
in a refinery and under a licence issued under this Act (hereunder referred to as "a re-
finer's licence").
2. Application for refiner's licence

-- 1 of 17 --

An application for a refiner's licence may be made by any person in the prescribed
form and manner to the Nigerian Customs Service Board (in this Act referred to as "the
Board") in respect of the premises mentioned in that behalf in the application.
3. Grant of application
If the Board, after due enquiry, is satisfied that the premises mentioned in an applica-
tion and intended to be used by the applicant as a refinery are in such a state and contains
such equipment as would enable proper control for excise purposes to be exercised over
activities to be carried on therein, the Board shall, on payment of a fee of five hundred
naira, issue to the applicant a refiner's licence in the prescribed form in respect of such
premises.
4. Refusal to grant application
(1) If the Board, after the enquiry, is not satisfied as required by section 3 of this Act
in respect of the premises to which the application relates, the Board may refuse ro
grant
the application, and shall notify the applicant in writing of such refusal.
(2) A notification by the Board under subsection (1) of this section of its refusal to
grant an application shall contain particulars of what the Board considers necessary to be
done in respect of the premises before the application can be granted.

-- 2 of 17 --

5. Revocation of licence
(1) If at any time during the currency of a refiner's licence the Board is satisfied
that-
(a) 	proper control for excise purposes can no longer be exercised over the premises; or
(a) 	that the person to whom the licence was granted has ceased to refine hydrocar-
bon oils on such premises,
the Board may revoke the licence.
(2) The Board shall notify a licence-holder in writing of the revocation of his licence
under subsection (1) of this section.
6. Expiration and renewal of licence
(1) A refiner's licence issued under this Act shall, unless previously revoked, remain
in force until 31 st December next following the date of issue, and shall then expire.
(2) An application for the renewal of a refiner's licence may be made to the Board in
the prescribed form and manner by the person to whom the licence was issued and the
provisions of sections 3 and 4 of this Act shall apply to such application as they apply to
an application made under section 2 of this Act.
7. Offences under section 1 of this Act
(1) Any person who refines hydrocarbon oils in contravention of the provisions of
section 1 of this Act shall be guilty of an offence, and shall be liable-
(a) 	on summary conviction, to a fine of not less than four hundred naira or more
than two thousand naira or to imprisonment for a term of two years, or to
both;
(b) 	on conviction on indictment, to a fine of an unlimited amount or to imprison-
ment for a term not exceeding five years, or to both.
(2) Any hydrocarbon oils in respect of the refining of which a person is convicted of
an offence under this section shall be liable to forfeiture.
8. Making of entries
(1) The holder of a refiner's licence shall make entry of any premises or articles to
which the licence relates as the excise laws may require, and such entry shall be made in
the form and manner and contain the particulars prescribed by the Board, and the prem-
ises and articles shall be, and be kept, marked in such manner as the Board may direct.
(2) No such entry as aforesaid shall be valid unless the person by whom it was
made-
(a) 	had at the time of its making attained the age of twenty-one years; and
(b) 	was at that time and is for the time being carrying on the business of refining
hydrocarbon oils in the premises in respect of which the entry was made.

-- 3 of 17 --

(3) Where any person required to make entry is a body corporate-
(a) 	the entry shall be signed by a director, general manager, secretary or other
similar officer of the body and, except where authority for that person to sign
has been given under the seal of the body, shall be made under that seal; and
(b) 	both the body corporate and the person by whom the entry is signed shall be
liable for all duties charged in respect of the trade to which the entry relates.
(4) If any person making entry of any premises or article contravenes or fails to com-
ply with any direction of the Board given under this section with respect thereto he shall
be guilty of an offence punishable on conviction by a fine of four hundred naira.
9. New or further entries of same premises
(1) The Board may at any time, by notice in writing to the person by whom any ex-
isting entry was signed addressed to him at any premises entered by him, require a new
entry to be made of any premises or article to which the existing entry relates, and the
existing entry shall, without prejudice to any liability incurred, become void at the ex-
piration of fourteen days from the delivery of the notice.
(2) Save as permitted by the Board and subject to such conditions as it may impose,
no premises or article of which entry has been made by any person shall, while that entry
remains in force, be entered by any other person for any purpose of the excise laws, and
any entry made in contravention of this subsection shall be void.
(3) Where the person by whom entry has been made of any premises absconds or
quits possession of the premises and discontinues the trade in respect of which the entry
was made, and the Board permits a further entry to be made of the premises by some
other person, the former entry shall be deemed to have been withdrawn and shall be void.
10. Proof as to entries
For the purpose of any proceedings before any court, if any question arises as to
whether or not entry under the excise laws has been made by any person of any premises
or article, or for any purpose, then-
(a) 	if a document purporting to be an original made by the person, or of the prem-
ises or article, or for the purpose, in question is produced to the court by an of-
ficer, that document shall, until the contrary is proved, be sufficient evidence
that the entry was so made; and
(b) 	if the officer in whose custody any such entry, if made, would be, gives evi-
dence that the original entries produced by him to the court constitute all those
in his custody and that no such entry as is in question is among them, it shall
be deemed, until the contrary is proved, that no such entry has been made.
11. Offences in connection with entries
(1) If any person being the holder of refiner's licence issued under this Act uses, for
any purpose of his trade, any premises or article required by this Act to be entered for that
purpose without entry thereof having been duly made, he shall be guilty of an offence
punishable on conviction by a fine of one thousand naira, and any goods found on such
premises shall be liable to forfeiture.

-- 4 of 17 --

(2) If any person who has made entry of any premises or article fraudulently uses
those premises or that article for any purpose other than that for which entry thereof was
made, he shall be guilty of an offence punishable on conviction by a fine of one thousand
naira.
12. Power to enter upon premises for inspection purposes
(1) An officer may at any time enter upon any premises to which a refiner's licence
relates for the purposes of inspecting the premises and may examine and take account of
any equipment, meters, vessels, utensils, goods or materials used for or in any way con-
nected with the refining of hydrocarbon oils.
(2) Where an officer, after having demanded admission into any such premises as
aforesaid, and declared his name and business at the entrance thereto, is not immediately
admitted, that officer and any person acting in his aid may break open any door or win-
dow of such premises or break through any wall thereof for the purpose of entering the
premises.
13. Payment of excise duty
(1) Every holder of a refiner's licence shall pay any duty of excise payable in respect
of any hydrocarbon oils refined by him at or within such time, at such place and to such
person as the Board may direct, whether or not the payment of that duty has been secured
by bond or otherwise.
(2) If any excise duty payable is not paid as aforesaid, it shall be paid on demand
made by the Board either to the holder of the refiner's licence personally or by delivering
the demand in writing at his place of abode or the premises to which his licence relates,
and, if it is not so paid on demand, the licence-holder, unless he can show that the de-
mand was not so made or delivered shall, in addition to the amount of the excise duty, be
liable to a penalty equal to twice the amount thereof or six hundred naira whichever is the
greater.
14. Effect of variation in balances struck or excess, etc., in stock of materials
(1) If at any time when an account is taken by the proper officer and a balance is
struck of the quantity of refined hydrocarbon oils in the possession of the holder of the
refiner's licence, that quantity differs from the quantity thereof which ought to be kept in
his possession according to any account required by this Act to be kept, the following
provisions shall apply-
(a) 	if the former quantity exceeds the latter, the excess shall be liable to forfeiture; and
(b) 	if the former quantity is less than the latter, the holder of the refiner's licence
shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine equal to twice the amount of
the excise duty which would be payable on the quantity of refined hydrocarbon
oils equal to that on the deficiency or six hundred naira, whichever is the
greater.
(2) At any time when an account is taken by the proper officer and a balance is struck
of the stock of materials, the following provisions shall apply-

-- 5 of 17 --

(a) 	if any excess is found, or goods not authorised for use as materials are discov-
ered in the stock, such excess or goods shall be liable to forfeiture; and
(b) 	if any deficiency is found which cannot be accounted for to the satisfaction of
the Board, the quantity or value of materials representing such deficiency shall
be deemed to have been used in manufacture and, in any particular case, duty
shall be charged on the quantity or value of excisable goods reckoned to have
been purchased with such quantity or value of materials.
15. Power to enter on premises, etc., in case of unlawful refining
If any officer has reasonable grounds to suspect that any refining of hydrocarbon oils
contrary to the provisions of this Act is being carried out on any land or premises, he may
enter thereon, if need be by force, and dismantle or seize any apparatus and equipment
used for or in connection with such unlawful refining.
16. Power to seize goods in particular cases
Where any refined hydrocarbon oils subject to excise duty become liable to forfeiture
under this Act, but such products are not available in sufficient quantity for forfeiture, the
Board may seize from the stock of the holder of the refiner's licence, any quantity of such
products available or materials capable of conversion into such products of such quantity
as would attract up to the same amount of duty as that on the refined hydrocarbon oils
liable to forfeiture.
17. Forfeiture and condemnation of refined hydrocarbon oil seized
(1) Any officer, police officer, or person authorised in that behalf by the Board may
at any time seize or detain any refined hydrocarbon oils liable to forfeiture under this Act
or which such officer, or person so authorised has reasonable grounds to believe are so
liable to forfeiture. 	.
(2) Refined hydrocarbon oils so seized or detained shall forthwith be delivered to the
Board; and pending determination by the Board as to forfeiture or disposal, things deliv-
ered to the Board shall be dealt with as the Board may direct.
(3) In the application of this section the provisions of the First Schedule to this Act
shalI have effect for the purposes of forfeiture, and all proceedings for the condemnation
of any thing as being forfeited under this Act.
[First Schedule.]
18. Power to levy distress
(1) Where any excise duty on hydrocarbon oils refined under a refiner's licence re-
mains unpaid after the time within which it is payable, the Board may authorise the
levying of a distress-
(a) 	upon the goods, chattels and effects of the holder of the licence in respect of
the unpaid duty; and
(b) 	upon alI equipment, plant, tools, ships, vehicles, animals, and other goods and
effects whatsoever used in the refining, sale or distribution of refined hydro-
carbon oils found in any premises or on any land in the use or possession of
the holder of the licence or of any person on his behalf, or in trust for him.

-- 6 of 17 --

(2) The authority to distrain under this section shall be in the form set out in the Sec-
ond Schedule to this Act, and shall be a warrant and authority to levy by distress the
amount of the unpaid duty.
[Second Schedule.]
(3) For the purpose of levying any distress under this section, any person authorised
in writing by the Board may execute a warrant of distress and if necessary break open any
building or place in the day-time for the purpose of levying such distress.
(4) A person so authorised under subsection (3) of this section to execute a warrant of
distress may call to his assistance any police officer, who shall when required aid and
assist in the execution of the warrant of distress and in levying the distress.
(5) Where distraint is made on any goods or things under this section the burden of
proof that they are not liable to seizure shall lie upon the person claiming that they are not
so liable, and any goods or things seized may, at the cost of the owner thereof, be kept for
fourteen days; and if the amount due in respect of duty and the cost and charges of and
incidental to the distress are not then paid, the goods or things so seized may be sold.
(6) Out of the proceeds of the sale there shall be paid first the excise duty and there-
after the costs and charges of and incidental to the levying, sale and keeping of the dis-
tress; and the residue, if any, shall be paid to the owner of the goods or things distrained,
upon demand made by the owner within one year of the date of sale.
(7) In exercising the power of distress conferred by this section, the person to whom
authority to levy distress is given may distrain upon all goods or things belonging to the
licence-holder wherever such goods or things may be found.
19. Excise control facilities
(1) The holder of a refiner's licence shall provide and maintain at his own expense on
the premises to which his licence relates-
(a) 	such office, lavatory and sanitary accommodation, with the requisite furniture,
lighting and cleaning for the proper officer as the Board may direct;
(b) 	such appliances and facilities as may be required to enable the proper officer at
any time to examine, or search or to perform any other of his duties at such
premises as the Board may direct,
and if the holder of the licence fails to comply with any of the foregoing requirements of
this subsection, the Board may revoke or suspend his licence.
(2) The requirements which the Board is authorised to impose on the holder of a re-
finer's licence by subsection (1) of this section shall include the requirement to provide at
his own expense and lease to the Board, on such reasonable terms as the Board may de-
termine, living accommodation which the Board considers suitable for occupation by,
and by the household of, any officer charged with duties which, in the opinion of the
Board, make it desirable that he should reside on or near the premises for which the re-
finer's licence is granted; and the provisions of subsection (1) of this section for failure to
comply with the requirements thereof shall have effect accordingly.

-- 7 of 17 --

(3) The proper officer may affix a lock or seal to any fittings on the premises, or on
any apparatus or thing whatsoever therein, and for that purpose he may require the holder
of the refiner's licence to provide and maintain any such fittings at his own expense.
(4) If the holder of such licence fails to comply with the requirements of subsec-
tion (3) of this section, the Board may provide and install the fitting, and any expense
incurred shall be paid to the Board on demand by the holder of the licence.
(5) The failure of the holder of the licence to pay any expenses incurred by the Board
under subsection (4) of this section shall be an offence for which he shall, in addition to
the requirement of the payment of the expense, be liable on summary conviction to a fine
of four hundred naira.
(6) If the holder of a refiner's licence or any member of his family or any servant of
the holder-
(a) 	wilfully destroys or damages a fitting or any lock, key or seal intended for use
therewith; or
(b) 	improperly obtains access to any place or article secured by any such lock or
seal thereon; or
(c) 	has any fitting on premises or on any apparatus or thing whatsoever fastened or
attached in such fashion that adequate supervision and control by an officer for
the purposes of this Act is not practicable,
the holder of the licence, or member of his family, or the servant, as the case may be,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine of two thousand
naira or to a term of imprisonment of two years.
20. Licensees to keep records
(1) Every holder of a refiner's licence shall keep on the premises to which the licence
relates such records and make all entries therein relating to the refining of hydrocarbon
oils and the storage and delivery of hydrocarbon oils and such other materials as the
Board may require.
(2) All entries in the records so kept shall be made legibly in ink and no cancellation
or amendment shall be made save in such manner as the Board may, from time to time,
direct.
(3) The proper officer may at any time inspect records kept under this section and
take copies of any entry.
(4) Failure by the holder of a refiner's licence to comply with the provisions of this
section shall be an offence for which the offender shall be liable on summary conviction
to a fine of one thousand naira.
21. Power to require information from licence-holder
(1) The holder of a refiner's licence shall-
(a) 	produce to the Board for inspection as and when required invoices and other
books or documents in his possession relating to hydrocarbon oils refined by
him during the preceding period of twelve months or any part thereof;

-- 8 of 17 --

(b) 	supply answers to questions relating to the refining of hydrocarbon oils and
related matters as the Board may reasonably require to implement the provi-
sions of this Act;
(c) 	produce to the Board such evidence as it may reasonably require in support of
any answer so supplied; and
(d) 	make returns in such form and at such intervals as the Board may require.
(2) If the holder of a refiner's licence fails without lawful excuse to comply with any
of the requirements imposed by the Board under subsection (1) of this section he shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine of two hundred
naira.
(3) The powers conferred on the Board by subsection (1) of this section, in so far as
they relate to the questions regarding the cost of production and the refiner's profits in re-
spect of any hydrocarbon oils refined by him shall be exercisable only by the Board itself.
(4) The Board may require the holder of a refiner's licence to supply to it in every
year and at such other times as it may direct a certificate of audit by an accountant ap-
proved by the Board as to-
(a) 	the correctness of all the books and records required by or under this Act to be
kept by the licence-holder; and
(b) 	any matter necessary to implement any of the provisions of this Act.
(5) The holder of a refiner's licence who without reasonable excuse fails to supply a
certificate of audit when required under subsection (4) of this section shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine of one thousand naira.
(6) In this section "accountant approved by the Board" means an accountant who
is a member of one of the professional bodies for the time being declared by the Board,
by notice in the Federal Gazette, to be approved for such purposes, but does not include
any such member if he is the holder of a refiner's licence or is employed by any such
holder.
22. Unlawful assumption of office
If for any of the purposes incidental to the control of the refining of hydrocarbon oils
under this Act any person, without lawful authority, assumes the name, designation or
character of an officer he shall, in addition to any other punishment, be liable on convic-
tion to a fine of not less than four hundred naira or more than one thousand naira, or to
imprisonment for a term of two years, or to both.
23. Officers to have powers of police officers
For the avoidance of doubt, officers acting under this Act shall have the same powers,
authorities and privileges as are given by law to police officers.
24. Offence of concealing, etc., refined hydrocarbon oils on licensed premises
(1) If any person-
(a) 	conceals any refined hydrocarbon oils on premises on which they were refined
in pursuance of a refiner's licence; or

-- 9 of 17 --

(b) 	without the consent of the proper officer, removes any refined hydrocarbon
oils from such premises; or
(c) 	knowingly possesses, buys or receives any such hydrocarbon oils removed
from such premises before duty (if any) thereon has been charged and, as the
case may be, paid or secured,
such person shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine of six
times the value of the goods or one thousand naira whichever is the greater amount, or to
imprisonment for two years, or to both.
(2) Refined hydrocarbon oils in respect of which an offence has been committed un-
der subsection (1) of this section shall be liable to forfeiture.
75. Condemnation proceedings
(1) Where, in any proceedings for the condemnation of any things seized as liable to
forfeiture under this Act judgment is given for the claimant, the court before which the
case is heard may, if it sees fit, certify that there were reasonable grounds for the
seizure.
(2) Where any proceedings, whether civil or criminal, are brought against the Board
or any person authorised by or under this Act to seize or detain anything liable to for-
feiture on account of the seizure or detention of anything, and judgment is given for the
plaintiff or prosecutor, then if-
(a) 	a certificate relative to the seizure has been granted under subsection (1) of this
section; or
(b) 	the court is satisfied that there were reasonable grounds for seizure or detain-
ing that thing under this Act,
the plaintiff or prosecutor shall not be entitled to recover any damages or costs and the
defendant shall not be liable to any punishment:
Provided that nothing in this subsection or in section 26 of this Act shall affect the
right of any person to the return of the thing seized or detained or to compensation in
respect of any damage to the thing or in respect of the destruction thereof.
(3) Any certificate under subsection (1) of this section may be proved by the produc-
tion of either the original certificate or a certified copy thereof purporting to be signed
by
an officer of the court by which it was granted.
26. Compensation in special cases
(1) Where any refined hydrocarbon oils on the premises of the holder of a refiner's
licence are destroyed, stolen or unlawfully removed by or with the assistance or conniv-
ance of an officer of the Nigerian Customs Service, and that officer is convicted of the
offence the Board shall, if the holder of the refiner's licence was not a party to the of-
fence, pay compensation for any loss caused by any such destruction, theft or removal;
and it is hereby declared that in any such case no duty shall be payable on any such re-
fined hydrocarbon oils by the licence-holder and duty (if any) paid thereon by the li-
cence-holder shall be refunded.

-- 10 of 17 --

(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (1) of this section, compensation shall not
be paid by the Board, and no action shall lie against the Board or any officer for any loss
or damage caused to any goods by any officer acting in the execution of his duty except
where the loss or damage occurs as the direct result of the unlawful act or negligence of
such officer.
27. Offences by bodies corporate
Where an offence under this section which has been committed by a body corporate is
proved to have been committed with the consent or connivance of, or to be attributable to
any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the
body corporate, or any person purporting to act in any such capacity, he, as well as the
body corporate, shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be pro-
ceeded against and punished accordingly.
28. Regulations
(1) The Minister may make such regulations with regard to the conduct of refineries
as appear to the Minister to be appropriate for the purpose of ensuring the payment of
excise duty on the hydrocarbon oils refined on the premises; and, without prejudice to
the
generality of the foregoing, such regulations may in particular provide for-
(a) 	the inspection by officers of the premises and all activities carried on the
premises and the inspection of the meters and other equivalent installations
used for the measurement of the quantities of refined hydrocarbon oils pro-
duced thereon;
(b) 	the notice to be given of any change which it is proposed to make in the prem-
ises or the use thereof;
(c) 	the regulation of-
(i) the production, storage and warehousing of hydrocarbon oils;
(ii) the removal of hydrocarbon oils to or from the premises used for their
production;
(iii) the use and storage of hydrocarbon oils in the premises;
(d) 	the calculation, securing and collection of the excise duty on hydrocarbon oils;
(e) 	the exportation, loading as stores, removal to bonded warehouse,
deliveries to approved users in Nigeria without payment of the excise; and
(f) 	the form and manner of an application for the grant or renewal of a refiner's
licence and the form of such licence.
(2) Every person who acts in contravention of any of the regulations made under this
section shall be guilty of an offence.
(3) Every person who is guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable on con-
viction to a fine of not less than two hundred naira or more than one thousand naira in
respect of any particular offence, or to imprisonment for a term of two years, or both such
fine and such imprisonment, and for the forfeiture or disposal of anything in respect of
which the offence is committed.

-- 11 of 17 --

29. Interpretation
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-
"excise laws" means the Customs and Excise Management Act and any other Act re-
lating to the control of excisable goods;
[Cap. C45.]
"hydrocarbon oils" means petroleum oils produced from coal, shale, peat, or any
other bituminous substance, and all liquid hydrocarbons excluding such hydrocarbons
which are solid or semi-solid at a temperature of 60 OF or which are gaseous at a tem-
perature of 60 OF at atmospheric pressure;
"Minister" means the Minister responsible for finance;
"officer" means any person employed in the Nigerian Customs Service or for the
time being performing customs and excise duties;
"proper officer" means any officer whose right or duty it is to require the perform-
ance of or perform the act referred to;
"refinery" means any bonded premises approved by the Board for the treatment of
hydrocarbon oils.
30. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Hydrocarbon Oil Refineries Act.