1. Persons liable to examination
(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, this Act shall apply to persons entering
or leaving Nigeria and to persons who are at any time therein after the commencement of
this Act.
(2) Nothing in this section shall be construed-
(a) 	to require any Minister of the Federal Government or any Commissioner of
any State Government to complete entry or embarkation cards on entering or
leaving Nigeria;
(b) 	to impose any restriction or liability under this Act as to entry or deportation in
respect of persons who satisfy an immigration officer that they are entitled un-
der any rule of law or enactment to immunity from suit or legal process not
being immunity in respect only of things done or omitted to be done in the
course of their duties, and complete any other requirement of this Act before
entry or departure;
(c) 	in respect of any particular requirement, to affect persons exempted therefrom
by the Minister under this Act;
(d) 	to prohibit the entry of any person who satisfies an immigration officer as to
his identity as a citizen of Nigeria or as the holder of a valid travel document
or that he is a person in the employ of the Federal Government or any State
Government, as the case may be;
(e) 	to authorise the deportation from Nigeria of any citizen of Nigeria;
(f) 	to exempt any person from medical examination if required by the immigration
officer.
(3) Where a person enters Nigeria as an exempted person under this Act and while in
Nigeria thereafter ceases to be entitled to such exemption, he shall as soon as possible
report the fact in writing to the Director of Immigration, and this Act shall have effect as
if the person ceasing to be exempted were a person desirous of entering Nigeria for the
first time and the Director of Immigration may, if he thinks fit. refer the case to the Min-
ister or may deal with the case himself.
(4) A person affected by subsection (3) of this section may, in the discretion of the
Minister or such officer as the case may require, be issued with a permit to remain in
Nigeria and if a permit is refused, the person affected shall be deemed to be a prohibited
immigrant, and may be dealt with accordingly.
2. Examination of persons landing or embarking
(1) It shall be the duty of every person entering or leaving Nigeria to report to an
immigration officer for examination, and to furnish such information in his possession as
that officer may reasonably require for the purposes of this Act; and the immigration offi-
cer may refuse admission in any proper case.

-- 3 of 45 --

(2) Any person liable to be examined by an immigration officer shall if directed to do
so by such officer in the course of his examination-
(a) 	declare whether or not he is carrying or conveying any document of any de-
scription specified by that officer, being a description appearing to that officer
to be relevant for the purposes of the examination;
(b) 	produce to the officer any document of any such description which he is car-
rying or conveying,
and the power to examine any such person shall include power to search him and any
baggage belonging to him or under his control with a view to ascertaining whether he is
carrying or conveying any such documents; but nothing in subsection (1) of this section
shall authorise the search of any woman or girl except by a woman.
(3) An immigration officer may examine, and may detain for such time as he thinks
proper for the purposes of examination (not exceeding seven days), any document pro-
duced pursuant to or found on a search under this section.
3. Passenger lists and medical examination, etc.
(1) Where any ship or aircraft lands in Nigeria, the captain or commander as the case
may be, shall supply to the immigration officer in charge, separate lists showing disem-
barking passengers and transit passengers and the immigration officer may, if he thinks
fit, examine transit passengers as if they were immigrants.
(2) Any immigrant or transit passenger named in any such list whose international
certificates of health fail to comply with the requirements of the Director of Immigration
or whose state of health the immigration officer has cause to suspect, shall submit to such
medical examination or vaccination as a medical inspector may reasonably require.
4. Production of travel documents
(1) Unless otherwise prescri bed-
(a) 	every passenger who enters or leaves Nigerian by any means at or from any
recognised port, shall in any proper case produce to an immigration officer,
landing or embarkation cards in such form as the Minister may by order direct
the owners or agents of ships and aircraft to supply to passengers, and shall
satisfy the immigration officer that he is the holder of a valid travel document;
(b) 	every member of the crew of a ship or aircraft who lands in or leaves Nigeria
shall produce such evidence or travel document as an immigration officer may
require.
(2) No person whether in possession of a travel document or not, who is a prohibited
immigrant, shall enter Nigeria without the consent of the Minister.
(3) For the purposes of this section, the expression "travel document" in the case of
any member of the crew of a ship or aircraft, includes any card or other document in a
form approved by or acceptable to the Director of Immigration.

-- 4 of 45 --

5. Appointment of immigration officers
(1) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3) of this section, there shall be
appointed a fit person to be Director of Immigration who shall, under the general direc-
tion of the Minister, be charged with the administration of this Act, and such number of
other fit persons as Deputy Directors ofImmigration and other officers as may, from time
to time, be required to assist the Director of Immigration under this Act and to be subject
to his direction and control, the Director of Immigration shall, where necessary for the
purposes of this Act, co-ordinate the duties of his division with those of the division of
any officer appointed for the control of aliens in Nigeria.
(2) There shall also be appointed a fit person to be Chief Federal Aliens Officer who
shall have such duties and powers as may be conferred upon him by this or any other Act
for the control of aliens in Nigeria, and such number of other fit persons as officers to
assist the Chief Federal Aliens Officer and to be subject to his direction and control; the
Chief Federal Aliens Officer in the performance of his duties under this Act shall where
necessary co-operate with the Director of Immigration.
(3) Any person who, immediately before the coming into operation of this Act is the
holder of any office designated in this section, shall, on the commencement of this Act,
continue in office and be deemed for the purpose only of this Act to have been appointed
to his office under this section.
6. Appointment of medical inspectors and others
(1) The Minister, with the approval of the Minister of Health, may appoint a duly
qualified medical practitioner as a medical inspector for the purposes of this Act, who
shall act in accordance with such instructions as may be given by the Minister of Health
from time to time.
(2) The Minister may arrange with the Minister charged with responsibility for cus-
toms and excise for the employment of members of the Nigerian Customs Service pre-
ventive service as immigration officers; and when so employed, such members shall have
the powers of an immigration officer under this Act.
(3) Members of the Nigeria Police Force may be employed as immigration officers
on such terms and conditions as the Immigration and Prisons Services Board established
under the Immigration and Prisons Services Board Act may, from time to time, approve.
[Cap. I2.]
7. Power of immigration officer to refuse entry, etc.
(1) The power of an immigration officer to refuse entry into Nigeria or to admit into
Nigeria subject to conditions, shall unless the Minister in any case otherwise directs, be
exercised by notice in writing; and subject to subsection (2) of this section, any such no-
tice shall be given by being delivered by the immigration officer to the person to whom it
relates.
(2) Where an immigrant who is to be admitted into Nigeria subject to conditions, is a
member of a party in the charge of a person appearing to the immigration officer to be a
responsible person, the notice under this section shall be duly given if delivered to the
person in charge of the party.

-- 5 of 45 --

(3) A notice refusing a person admission into Nigeria may at any time be cancelled
by a subsequent notice in writing given to him by an immigration officer; and where a
notice under this subsection cancelling such a notice is given to any person at any time,
the immigration officer may at the same time give to that person a permit admitting him
into Nigeria, subject to conditions.
(4) Any conditions specified in a notice under this section may at any time be re-
voked or varied by the Minister or the Director of Immigration either by notice in writing
given to the immigrant to whom those conditions apply or by order applying to immi-
grants of any class to whom such conditions for the time being apply.
(5) Any notice under this section and any condition specified in such a notice, shall,
unless previously cancelled or revoked under the provisions of this Act, cease to have
effect if the person to whom the notice was given again enters or seeks to enter Nigeria.
8. Entry for business purposes, etc.
(1) No person other than a citizen of Nigeria shall-
(a) 	accept employment (not being employment with the Federal Government or a
State Government) without the consent in writing of the Director of Immigra-
tion; or
(b) 	on his own account or in partnership with any other person, practise a profes-
sion or establish or take over any trade or business whatsoever or register or
take over any company with limited liability for any such purpose, without the
consent in writing of the Minister given on such conditions as to the locality of
operations and persons to be employed by or on behalf of such person, as the
Minister may prescribe.
(2) Any person desirous of entering Nigeria for any of the purposes in subsection (1)
of this section, shall produce the consent to an immigration officer; and the failure to do
so shall be an offence under this Act, and any person who commits such an offence shall
be liable on conviction to deportation as a prohibited immigrant.
(3) Where any person exempt from any provision of this Act restricting his employ-
ment ceases to be so exempt, he shall be deemed to be a person seeking entry into Nigeria
for the first time; and the provisions of this section shall have effect accordingly.
9. Entry requirements and conditions
(1) Applications for visa or entry permit shall be made to the appropriate diplomatic
Nigerian Mission established abroad and the diplomatic head of that Mission shall-
(a)
(b)
in the case of a person visiting Nigeria, if satisfied that it is a proper case, issue
a visa or entry permit;
in the case of-
(i) government officials of countries other than Nigeria;
(ii) personnel ofthe United Nations Organisation and its agencies;
[1972 No.8.]
(iii) personnel of the Organisation of African Unity and its agencies;
(iv) persons seeking entry under any technical aid scheme;

-- 6 of 45 --

(v) 	specially organised economic and trade delegations; and
(vi) 	persons specially invited by the Government of the Federal Republic of
Nigeria;
issue the appropriate entry permit;
(c) 	in the case of a person seeking entry into Nigeria for the purpose of taking up
employment under a contract of service with the Government of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria or the Government of any State of the Federation (other
than by way of technical aid), his spouse and dependants, on the production by
that person of the contract of service or such other evidence as may be satis-
factory to the diplomatic head of the Mission, issue the appropriate entry per-
mit;
(d) 	in the case of a person seeking entry into Nigeria for the purpose of taking up
employment in Nigeria, refer the application to the Ministry of Internal Af-
fairs.
(2) Where no diplomatic Nigerian Mission is established in the country concerned, an
application shall-
(a) 	if there is an agreement between Nigeria and the Government of that country
for the performance by that Government of consular functions on behalf of
Nigeria, be made to that Government; and
(b) 	if there is no such agreement, be made to such diplomatic mission as may be
designated by the Minister for External Affairs.
(3) Nothing in this section shall apply to-
(a) 	persons who, after a tour of duty with the Federal or any State Government,
corporation or company owned or controlled by any such government, are
abroad on leave with the intention of resuming duty in Nigeria thereafter;
(b) 	spouses and children of person within paragraph (a) of this subsection;
(c) 	persons otherwise employed in Nigeria and their spouses and dependants who
before departure on leave apply for and obtain a re-entry permit from the Di-
rector of Immigration;
(d) 	transit passengers who remain in or in the vicinity of the port of entry for a
period of time not exceeding 48 hours.
10. Residence permits
(1) Any Commonwealth citizen or citizen of Eire may, subject to the provisions of
section 9 of this Act, enter Nigeria for the purpose of residence (not being a tour of serv-
ice with the Federal Government or any State Government in Nigeria) on production of a
residence permit with his other travel documents, signed by or on behalf of the Director
of Immigration and issued subject to such conditions as may be endorsed thereon; and if
the entry is for any such tour of service, such citizen shall on production of any evidence
which an immigration officer may reasonably require, be deemed to be in possession of a
residence permit.
(2) Any person not a citizen of Nigeria, desirous of entering Nigeria for the purpose
of residence shall, unless exempted under this Act, give security in such amount as the

-- 7 of 45 --

Minister may prescribe, and shall supply such information as the Director of Immigration
may reasonably require; and if the Director of Immigration is satisfied, he may issue a
residence permit accordingly.
(3) The residence permit issued under subsection (2) of this section shall be in such
form as may be prescribed and may be issued by endorsement on any travel document or
otherwise as the Director of Immigration may direct.
(4) The Director of Immigration may endorse on a residence permit such conditions
not inconsistent with this Act as he thinks fit, and may replace any valid permit issued or
deemed to have been issued by a residence permit, and for such purpose the Director of
Immigration may at any time require the holder to apply for a residence permit after entry
into Nigeria.
(5) The failure by any person to comply with the requirements of this section or of
any conditions imposed shall be an offence under this Act, and such person may, if the
Minister thinks fit, be required to leave Nigeria; and any security furnished under this
section, may be forfeited or, as the case may be, any bond may be entreated at suit of the
Director of Immigration.
11. Control of visitors and transit passengers
(1) An immigration officer may by notice given at any time to any person who-
(a) 	has arrived at a recognised port in Nigeria as a visitor or as a transit passenger
on board a ship or aircraft; and
(b) 	is for the time being on board the ship or aircraft on which he arrived at such
port,
prohibit him from landing from that ship or aircraft as the case may be, while it remains
at such port unless authorised to do so by an immigration officer.
(2) If any person affected by subsection (1) of this section-
(a) 	lands from a ship or aircraft in contravention of a prohibition imposed on him
under subsection (1) of this section; or
(b) 	being a visitor refused admission or a transit passenger remains in Nigeria after
the ship or aircraft has left the port; or
(c) 	having been admitted as a visitor into Nigeria subject to a condition restricting
the period for which he may remain there, remains in Nigeria in contravention
of that condition,
he shall, subject to subsection (3) of this section, where necessary, be treated for the pur-
poses of this Act as if he had been refused admission into Nigeria.
(3) An immigration officer may, by notice in writing given at any time to any person
who has landed or remained in Nigeria as mentioned in subsection (2) of this section,
authorise him to remain in Nigeria either without conditions or subject to any conditions
the Minister may impose, including in particular, conditions requiring him-
(a) 	to leave Nigeria in a specified ship or aircraft; or

-- 8 of 45 --

(b) 	to leave Nigeria within a specified period in accordance with the conditions of
his permit or as the case may be with arrangements made, and where such a
notice is given to any person, he shall not be treated as a person to whom ad-
mission to Nigeria has been refused unless, in the case where he is subject to
conditions requiring him to leave Nigeria as aforesaid, he fails to comply or is
reasonably suspected of intending to fail to comply with those conditions.
(4) Any permit under this section shall be in such form as the Minister may, from
time to time, prescribe, and any permit issued or conditions endorsed may at any time be
varied or revoked by the Director of Immigration, or such officer may replace the permit
in any proper case.
12. Power to exempt from certain entry or departure requirements
(1) The Minister, by order, may exempt from the requirements of entry under this Act
any other person or class of persons, and with the concurrence of the Minister of Health
may restrict the classes of cases where medical examination of persons landing in Nigeria
is required.
(2) The Minister may likewise, by order, exempt any person or class of persons from
the requirements of this Act as to departure from Nigeria.
13. Power to board ships, etc.
Any immigration officer or medical inspector may, in Nigeria, board any ship or air-
craft and at any frontier, may board a vehicle of any description whatsoever.
14. Recognition of airports and ports
For the purposes of this Act, the Minister may by order prescribe any aerodrome, air-
port or airline to be a recognised airport or airline, and may likewise recognise any port
for shipping or point of entry by land or inland waters as a port of entry.
15. Arrivals elsewhere than at a recognised port
Where any ship or aircraft lands by sea or air in Nigeria elsewhere than at a recog-
nised port, the master of the ship or aircraft shall report to the nearest immigration offi-
cer, and no person on board shall leave the ship or aircraft without the authority of an
immigration officer.
16. Control of immigrants by inland waters, etc.
Any person who enters Nigeria by inland waters or overland, shall forthwith proceed
to the nearest recognised port and appear before the immigration officer, and that immi-
gration officer after such examination as he may consider necessary, shall, if the person
appears to him to be a prohibited immigrant, detain that person; and the provisions of this
Act as to deportation shall have effect accordingly.
17. Removal of immigrant where entry refused
(1) Where a person arriving by ship or aircraft is for any reason refused entry into
Nigeria, an immigration officer may give directions-

-- 9 of 45 --

(a) 	to the master of the ship or commander of the aircraft in which the immigrant
arrived in Nigeria, requiring him to remove the immigrant from Nigeria in that
ship or aircraft; or
(b) 	to the owners or agents of the said ship or aircraft, requiring them to remove
the immigrant from Nigeria in any ship or aircraft specified in the directions,
being a ship or aircraft of which they are the owners or agents; or
(c) 	to the said owners or agents, requiring them to make arrangements for the re-
moval of the immigrant from Nigeria in any ship or aircraft bound for a coun-
try or territory specified in the directions, being-
(i) a country of which the person refused entry is a citizen; or
(ii) a country or territory in which he has obtained a passport or other
document of identity; or
(iii) a country or territory in which he embarked for Nigeria; or
(iv) a country or territory to which there is reason to believe that the
immigrant will be admitted,
and for securing him a passage to that country or territory.
(2) If it appears to the Minister, that in the circumstances it is not practicable for di-
rections to be given under subsection (1) of this section in respect of an immigrant, or
that directions so given would be ineffective, the Minister or any person acting under his
authority, may give to the owners or agents of any ship or aircraft the like directions as
may be given under paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of this section to the owners or agents
of the ship or aircraft in which the immigrant arrived in Nigeria; and for the avoidance of
doubt in any such case, the cost of complying with the directions shall be defrayed by the
owners or agents as the case may be, of the ship or aircraft.
(3) An immigrant in respect of whom directions are given under this section may be
placed, under the authority of an immigration officer, on board any ship or aircraft in
which he is to be removed in accordance with the directions.
PART II
Deportation
18. Prohibited immigrants
(1) Any person within any of the following classes shall be deemed to be a prohibited
immigrant and liable to be refused admission into Nigeria or to be deported as the case
may be, that is to say-
(a) 	any person who is without visible means of support or is likely to become a
public charge;
(b) 	any idiot, insane person, or person suffering from any other mental disorder;
(c) 	any person convicted in any country of any crime wherever committed, which
is an extradition crime within the provisions of the Extradition Act;
[Cap. E25.]
(d) 	any person whose admission would in the opinion of the Minister be contrary
to the interest of national security;

-- 10 of 45 --

(e) 	any person against whom an order of deportation from Nigeria is in force;
(f) 	any person who-
(i) has not in his possession a valid passport; or
(ii) being a person under the age of sixteen years has not in his possession
a valid passport or is unaccompanied by an adult on whose valid passport
particulars of such person appear;
(g) 	any prostitute;
(h) 	any person who is or has been-
(i) a brothel keeper;
(ii) a householder permitting the defilement of a young girl on his premises;
(iii) 	a person allowing a person under thirteen years of age to be in a
brothel;
(iv) 	a person causing or encouraging the seduction or prostitution of a girl
under thirteen years of age;
(v) a person trading in prostitution; or
(vi) a procurer.
(2) The Minister may, at any time by notice add to or amend any class of prohibited
immigrants in subsection (1) of this section and if he deems it conducive to the public
good may prohibit the entry into or stay in Nigeria of any other persons or class of per-
sons not in any case citizens of Nigeria.
(3) In this section-
(a) 	"brothel keeper" includes any person who appears, acts or behaves himself as
the owner of, or the person having the care, government or management of any
premises, or room or set of rooms in any premises, kept for the purposes of prostitution;
(b) 	"householder permitting the defilement of a young girl on his premises"
means any person who, being the owner or occupier of any premises or having
or acting or assisting in the management or control thereof, induces or know-
ingly suffers any girl under the age of thirteen years to resort to or be in or
upon such premises for the purpose of being unlawfully and carnally known by
any man or for any lewd purpose;
(c) 	"person allowing a person under thirteen years of age to be in a brothel"
means any person having the custody, charge or care of a child or young per-
son who has attained the age of four years and is under the age of thirteen
years, who allows that child or young person to reside in or frequent a brothel;
(d) 	"person causing or encouraging the seduction or prostitution of a girl un-
der thirteen years of age" means any person having the custody, charge or
care of a girl under the age of thirteen years who causes or encourages the se-
duction, unlawful carnal knowledge, or prostitution of or the commission of an
indecent assault upon that girl;

-- 11 of 45 --

(e) 	"person trading in prostitution" means-
(i) 	a male who knowingly lives wholly or in part on the earnings of prostitution or
who, in any public place persistently solicits or importunes for immoral
purposes, or
(ii) 	a female who, for the purposes of gain; exercises control, direction or
influence over the movements of a prostitute in such a manner as to show that
such female is aiding, abetting or compelling her prostitution with any person or
generally;
(f) 	"procurer" means any person who-
(i) 	procures or attempts to procure any female under twenty-one years of
age, not being a common prostitute or of known immoral character, to have unlawful
carnal connection, either within or without Nigeria, with any other person; or
(ii) 	procures or attempts or procure any female to become, either within or
without Nigeria a common prostitute; or
(iii) 	procures or attempts to procure any female to leave her usual place of
abode (such place not being a brothel), with intent that she may, for the purpose of
prostitution, become an inmate of a brothel, either within or without Nigeria; or
(iv) 	by threats or intimidation procures or attempts to procure any female to
have any unlawful carnal connection either within or without Nigeria;
(v) 	by false pretences or false representations procures any female, not
being a common prostitute or of known immoral character, to have any
unlawful carnal connection, either within or without Nigeria; or
(vi) 	applies or administers to or causes to be taken by a female any drug,
matter, or thing, with intent to stupefy or overpower her so as thereby to enable
any person to have unlawful carnal connection with that female;
(g) 	"prostitution" (with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions) in-
cludes the offering by a female of her body commonly for acts of lewdness for
payment although there is no act, or offer of an act, of ordinary sexual connection.
(4) For the purposes of this section a person shall be deemed to possess a valid passport if-
(a) 	being a citizen of any other Commonwealth country (including Eire), he pro-
duces with his passport for inspection under this Act, a residence permit issued
by or on behalf of the Director of Immigration and any entry permit issued un-
der section 9 of this Act; or
[l972 No.8.]
(b) 	being a citizen of any other country not otherwise exempted under this Act, he
produces for inspection with his passport, a visa valid for entry into Nigeria for
any purpose designated in the visa, and a residence permit.
19. Deportation orders in special cases
(1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3) of this section, any person who being a prohib-
ited immigrant enters Nigeria except in accordance with this Act shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act, and if convicted the court may make a recommendation for de-
portation of the offender.
(2) The Minister may, if satisfied that it is in the public interest, and whether or not
any person has been prosecuted for an offence under this section, make a deportation
order against that person as a prohibited immigrant; and it shall be no defence that such
person was not notified that his entry into Nigeria was prohibited, or that the entry was
permitted by oversight or otherwise howsoever; this subsection shall have effect notwith-
standing any other provision of this Act.
(3) If the Minister is of opinion that any person in Nigeria ought, at any time after his
entry to be classed as a prohibited immigrant, he may make an order accordingly and the
provisions of any such order shall have effect as if the person named in the order were a
prohibited immigrant landing in Nigeria for the first time; any person affected by an order
made under this subsection may be deported.
(4) The provisions of this section shall, if the Minister thinks tit, extend and apply to

-- 12 of 45 --

any person who having entered Nigeria at any time in pursuance of a visitor's permit or
transit permit remains in Nigeria beyond the time allowed by such pass or breaks any
other condition subject to which such permit was issued, whether or not he has been
prosecuted for an offence under this Act.
20. Court deportation recommendations to be an order made on conviction
(1) Where a person convicted of an offence by any court is committed for sentence to
another court, any power to make a recommendation for deportation in respect of him
shall be exercisable by the court to which he is committed and not by the court by which
he is convicted.
(2) For the purposes of any enactment relating to appeals in criminal cases, a recom-
mendation for deportation shall be treated as an order made on conviction; and the valid-
ity of such a recommendation shall not be called in question except on an appeal against
the recommendation or against the conviction upon which it is made.
21. Deportation order on recommendation by court
(1) Where a recommendation by a court for deportation is in force, the Minister may,
if he thinks fit, make a deportation order requiring him to leave Nigeria and prohibiting
him from returning there so long as the order is in force.
(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, an order under this section shall not be made
in pursuance of a recommendation for deportation unless either-
(a) 	the time for bringing an appeal against the recommendation, or against the
conviction upon which it was made, has expired without such an appeal having
been brought; or
(b) 	such an appeal has been brought and abandoned, or finally determined other-
wise than by the quashing of the recommendation or the conviction; or
(c) 	the recommendation was made on appeal and no further appeal lies.
(3) The Minister may, if he thinks fit, revoke a deportation order at any time, whether
before or after the person to whom it relates has left or been removed from Nigeria, but
the revocation of a deportation order shall not affect the validity of anything previously
done thereunder.
22. Removal of persons subject to deportation orders
(1) The Minister or any person acting under his authority may, notwithstanding any
other provision of this Act, give directions to the master of any ship or commander of any
aircraft which is about to leave Nigeria, requiring him to afford to any person against
whom a deportation order is in force, and to any dependants of his specified in the direc-
tions, a passage to any port so specified (being a port in a country of which that person is
a citizen or a country or territory to which the Minister has reason to believe that he will
be admitted, and at which the ship or aircraft is to call or land in the course of the voyage)
and proper accommodation and maintenance during the passage.
(2) A person in respect of whom directions are given under subsection (1) of this
section, may be placed, under the authority of the Minister, on board any ship or aircraft
in which he is to be removed in accordance with the directions.
(3) The employer of any person against whom a deportation order is in force shall
pay the expenses incidental to the voyage from Nigeria of the person to be deported and
his dependants (if any) and the maintenance until departure of such person and his de-
pendants; and in default of such payment the Minister may in any proper case sue for and
recover the same, or in his discretion may apply in and towards any such expenses afore-
said, moneys belonging to the person to be deported, or cause the expenses to be defrayed
by the Government of the Federation.
23. Detention, etc., of persons liable to deportation
(1) Where a recommendation for deportation is in force in respect of an offender and
the offender is neither detained in pursuance of the sentence or order of any court nor for
the time being released on bail by any court having power so to release him, he shall,
unless the court by which the recommendation is made otherwise directs, be detained
until the Minister-

-- 13 of 45 --

(a) 	makes a deportation order in respect of him; or
(b) 	notifies him that no such order is to be made; or
(c) 	directs him to be released pending further consideration of his case.
(2) Where a deportation order is in force in respect of an offender, the offender may
be detained under the authority of the Minister until he is removed from Nigeria pursuant
to this Act; and if he is released from detention pending further consideration of his case
or while liable to be detained is not so detained, the Minister may by order impose on him
such restrictions as to place of residence and requirements as to reporting to the police as
the Minister thinks fit.
24. Offences in connection with deportation orders
(1) If any person in respect of whom a deportation order is in force-
(a) 	having left Nigeria after notice of the making of the order has been given to
him on behalf of the Minister, subsequently returns to Nigeria; or
(b) 	having been placed on board a ship or aircraft under this Act, lands from that
ship or aircraft before it has left Nigeria,
he shall be guilty of an offence; and any otfence under this subsection shall be deemed to continue
throughout any period during which the offender is in Nigeria after its commission.
(2) If any person, upon whom any restriction or requirement is imposed under this
Act, fails to comply with that restriction or requirement, he shall be guilty of an offence.
(3) Where a person in respect of whom a deportation order is in force is convicted of
any offence under subsection (1) of this section, the operation of the deportation order
shall be suspended but shall not cease to have effect.
(4) If any person knowingly harbours any person whom he knows or has reasonable
grounds for believing to have committed an offence under subsection (1) of this section,
he shall be guilty of an offence.

-- 14 of 45 --

25. Power to notify cases specially liable to deportation
(1) The Minister may, from time to time, by notice direct that persons within any
category specified in the notice, entering Nigeria otherwise than by sea or air, shall be
liable to deportation as prohibited immigrants without the intervention of any court; and
any person in any such category may be arrested and detained by an immigration officer
and may, subject to subsection (2) of this section, be deported forthwith; if any person is
deported under this subsection, the immigration officer shall report the case as soon as
possible to the Director of Immigration.
(2) The power to arrest or to deport under this section may be exercised by an immi-
gration officer not below the rank of Assistant Immigration Officer.
PART III
Control of crews and stowaways
26. Examination of crews
(1) An immigration officer may examine any person who arrives at a port in Nigeria
as a member of the crew of a ship or aircraft whether or not he lands or seeks to land in
Nigeria; and the provisions of this Act shall apply to any such person accordingly.
(2) The Minister may, by order, make provision for requiring masters of ships and
commanders of aircraft arriving at ports in Nigeria to furnish to the immigration officer,
particulars of the members of the crews of those ships or aircrafts, and for enabling the
immigration officer to dispense with the furnishing of such particulars.
27. Control of members of crew of ship, etc.
(1) An immigration officer may, by notice given at any time to any person who-
(a) 	has arrived at a port in Nigeria as a member of the crew of a ship or aircraft; and
(b) 	is for time being on board the ship or aircraft on which he arrived at the a port,prohibit
him from landing from that ship or aircraft as the case may be, while it remains
at the port, unless authorised to do so by an immigration officer.
(2) If any person affected by subsection (1) of this section-
(a) 	lands from a ship or aircraft in contravention of a prohibition imposed on him
under subsection (1) of this section; or
(b) 	remains in Nigeria after his ship or aircraft has left the port; or
(c) 	having been admitted into Nigeria subject to a condition restricting the period
for which he may remain there, remains in Nigeria in contravention of that
condition,
he shall, subject to the provision of subsection (3), be treated for the purposes of this Act
as if he had been refused admission into Nigeria.
(3) An immigration officer may, by notice in writing given at any time to any person
who has landed or remained in Nigeria as mentioned in subsection (2) of this section
authorise him to remain in Nigeria either without conditions or subject to any conditions
the Minister may impose, including in particular, conditions requiring him-
(a) 	to leave Nigeria in a specified ship or aircraft; or
(b) 	to leave Nigeria within a specified period in according with arrangements for
his repatriation,
and where such a notice is given to any person, he shall not be treated as a person to
whom admission to Nigeria has been refused unless, in the case where he is subject to
conditions requiring him to leave Nigeria as aforesaid, he fails to comply or is reasonably
suspected of intending to fail to comply with those conditions.
28. Stowaways

-- 15 of 45 --

(1) If any person arrives at a port in Nigeria as a stowaway in a ship or aircraft, he
shall, subject to the provisions of subsection (2) of this section, be treated for the pur-
poses of this Act as if he were a prohibited immigrant and was refused admission into
Nigeria accordingly.
(2) Subsection (3) of section 27 of this Act shall apply in relation to any such person
refused admission as it applies in relation to any who has landed or remained in Nigeria
as mentioned in subsection (2) of the said section 27.
29. Discharge of crew in Nigeria
(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other Act or enactment, no member of the
crew of any ship or aircraft who is not a citizen of Nigeria, shall be discharged in Nigeria
without the approval of the Director of Immigration given on such terms as he may think fit.
(2) For the avoidance of doubt, the provisions of this section shall extend and apply
to the crew of any ship which operates solely or mainly within the territorial waters of
Nigeria.

-- 16 of 45 --

PART IV
Miscellaneous and supplemental
30. Determination of nationality in special cases
(1) The Minister may, from lime to time, give such directions as he thinks fit for the
determination of the nationality of any person, or if a deportation order is in force, for the
disregarding of any change of nationality; and where at anytime before or after entry into
Nigeria the nationality of any person is or may be questioned, or after entry into Nigeria a
person for any reason changes his nationality, the burden of proof shall in any case, lie
upon the person asserting the nationality or the change of nationality, as the case may be.
(2) Save in the case of any person in or resident in Nigeria and claiming to be a citi-
zen of Nigeria, no direction given under this section shall be questioned in any court.
31. General provisions as to detained persons
(1) Any person required or authorised to be detained under this Act may be detained
in such places as the Minister may direct.
(2) Where a person is detained by virtue of this Act, any immigration officer, police
officer, prison officer, or any other person authorised by the Minister, may do all things
reasonably necessary for photographing, measuring or otherwise identifying him.
(3) Any person detained by virtue of this Act and any person who, being detained in
pursuance of the sentence or order of a court, would otherwise be liable to be so detained,
may be taken in the custody of a police officer or an immigration officer to and from any
place where his attendance is required for the purpose of ascertaining his nationality or of
making arrangements for his admission to any country or territory.
(4) Any person required or authorised by this Act to be detained may be arrested
without warrant by an immigration officer duly authorised in writing either generally or
specially by the Director of Immigration, or by any police officer; and any person who is
detained by virtue of this Act, or is being removed in pursuance of this section, shall be
deemed to be in legal custody.
32. Power to abolish entry permits, etc., in certain cases
(1) Where the Minister is satisfied that the Government of any other country or a
Minister thereof permits the entry of citizens of Nigeria into that country without requir-
ing a visa or other entry permit, he may by order abolish or suspend the requirement in
Nigeria of a visa or other entry permit by nationals of that other country, but without
prejudice to any other requirements of this Act.
(2) Notice of the making of any order under this section shall be given to such person
outside Nigeria as the Director of Immigration thinks fit as soon as may be after the
making thereof.
33. Power to prescribe entry conditions and fees
(1) The Minister may, from time to time, prescribe the conditions for entry into Nigeria
and the fees payable in respect of any travel document, visa, or permit; and every

-- 17 of 45 --

Nigerian embassy shall give effect thereto in any proper case by the issue of a visa or
other entry permit.
(2) For the purposes of this section, "embassy" includes any Nigerian High Com-
mission or Consulate.
34. Employment of immigrants
(1) Where any person in Nigeria is desirous of employing a person who is a national
of any other country he shall, unless exempted under this section, make application to the
Director of Immigration in such manner as may be prescribed and shall give such infor-
mation as to the provision to be made for repatriation of that national and his dependants
as the Director of Immigration may reasonably require; and no such person shall be em-
ployed without the permission of the Director of Immigration given on such terms as he
thinks fit; the provisions of this section shall extend and apply to persons in employment
immediately before, as well as to those employed or to be employed at any time after, the
commencement of this Act.
(2) The Director of Immigration shall record the information in such form as he
thinks necessary; and where he is so satisfied, the Director of Immigration may require
provision to be made for repatriation either generally as to all persons so employed by a
person in Nigeria and their dependants or with reference to any particular person, by
payment into the Consolidated Revenue Fund by way of deposit of such amount as the
Minister may prescribe for the repatriation, or by a bond in such form as the Director of
Immigration may approve for such purpose.
(3) The Minister may, by notice, exempt any person from the requirements of this
section on such conditions as he thinks fit, and subject thereto any person to whom this
section applies who is employed in Nigeria, shall on ceasing for any reason to be so em-
ployed be deemed to be a prohibited immigrant as from the date of his entry into Nigeria;
and the person who employed him shall be liable to pay all costs of and incidental to de-
portation of the prohibited immigrant and of his dependants.
(4) The failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall be an offence under
this Act.
(5) For the purposes of this section, any person being a company or association shall
be deemed to be in Nigeria if carrying out any work therein.
35. Revocation or variation or permits
(1) The Director of Immigration may if he deems it to be in the public interest, at any
time revoke a residence permit or other permit under this Act or may issue a new permit
on such conditions as he thinks fit; and where any permit is revoked without replacement,
the person affected shall be deemed to be a person seeking to enter Nigeria for the first
time, and the Minister in his discretion, may issue a deportation order.
(2) The Director of Immigration may direct the holder of a permit to surrender it for
replacement, or he may re-issue it with such additional conditions or varied conditions, as
the circumstances may require; the failure to comply with any direction of the Director of
Immigration under this subsection shall be an offence under this Act.

-- 18 of 45 --

36. Power to prohibit departure
(1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2) of this section, the Minister may if he
thinks it to be in the public interest, by order prohibit the departure of any person from
Nigeria; and if the travel documents of any person are not in proper order or there is, to
the knowledge of the immigration officer, an unsatisfied order of a court of competent
jurisdiction or warrant of arrest relating to that person, an immigration officer may refuse
to allow such person to leave Nigeria, or in his discretion he may refer the case to the
Director of Immigration for further consideration.
(2) Nothing in this section shall apply to or affect any person entitled under any rule
of law or enactment to immunity from suit or legal process, not being immunity in re-
spect of things done or omitted to be done in the course of his duty.
37. Application of Act to young persons and cases of dual nationality, etc.
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any person of or above the apparent age of
sixteen years who, on the coming into operation of this Act is in Nigeria but is not a citi-
zen thereof, shall apply to an immigration officer at such time and place as may be re-
quired under this section for a permit under this Act; any person in Nigeria as aforesaid
and under the apparent age of sixteen years shall apply to an immigration officer for such
permit not later than three months after he attains that age, and notice of the requirement
of this section may be published in such manner as the Director of Immigration thinks fit.
(2) The provisions of this section shall extend and apply-
(a) 	to persons who being nationals of more than one country including Nigeria,
elect within the time prescribed by the Constitution of the Federal Republic of
Nigeria 1999, or any enactment to be nationals of some country other than
Nigeria;
[Cap. C23.]
(b) 	to persons who having acquired nationality as citizens of Nigeria for any rea-
son, lose that nationality,
and the person concerned shall within one month after the election or loss of nationality,
as the case may be, apply to the Director of Immigration for a permit to remain in Nigeria;
and the Director of Immigration may grant or refuse the permit; an appeal shall lie to the
Minister from the grant or refusal of a permit under this subsection.
(3) The Minister may exempt any person or class of person from the requirements of
this section; and subject thereto, the Director of Immigration may from time to time in the
Federal Gazette and in some newspaper printed and circulating in Nigeria, give notice of
the requirements of this section.
(4) A permit under this section shall be in such form and be subject to such condi-
tions as the Minister may, from time to time, prescribe; and the failure to comply when
required by this section shall be an offence against this Act, and any person affected shall
be deemed to be a person seeking to enter Nigeria for the first time, and may be dealt
with accordingly.

-- 19 of 45 --

38. Power to require young persons to obtain permit after entry
(1) Any person under the apparent age of sixteen years may be permitted by an im-
migration officer to enter Nigeria without a permit and to remain in Nigeria for so long as
such person is with his parents, and any person so admitted shall not live elsewhere with-
out the approval of an immigration officer; any such person entering without a permit
shall leave Nigeria as and when required by the Director of Immigration; and if not hav-
ing been required to leave he attains the age of sixteen years, he shall apply to an immi-
gration officer for the issue of a permit under section 37 of this Act to remain in Nigeria.
The immigration officer may issue a permit upon such conditions as he thinks fit, or may
refuse a permit. If a permit is refused the person affected shall be dealt with in such man-
ner as the Minister may direct.
(2) The provisions of this section shall extend and apply to any person who entered
Nigeria at any time after 30 September 1960 and before the commencement of this Act,
so however that if on the commencement of this Act he has attained the age of not less
than sixteen years he shall be deemed for the purposes of this section to be of the age of
sixteen years on the commencement of this Act.
(3) The failure to comply with the requirements of this section shall be an offence
under this Act.
39. Admission of insane persons
(1) Any person who, without the approval of the Minister given on such terms as he
thinks fit, brings into Nigeria any idiot or insane person, not being a citizen of Nigeria,
shall be liable to pay to the Minister aH expenses which may be incurred by the Minister
in connection with the maintenance and transport of such idiot or insane person and his
deportation from Nigeria.
(2) The amount of any expenses incurred shall be recoverable by action brought in
the name of the Attorney-General of the Federation.
40. Liability of master of a ship, etc., for costs of deportation
(1) Where a prohibited immigrant disembarks from any ship or aircraft in Nigeria,
the master, the owner and the agent of any such ship or aircraft shall be jointly and sever-
ally liable to pay to the Minister all expenses incurred by the Minister in connection with
the transport and maintenance of the prohibited immigrant and of his deportation from
Nigeria.
(2) The provision of subsection (1) of this subsection shall extend and apply to the
owner or agent of the owner of any vehicle whatsoever by means of which the prohibited
immigrant entered Nigeria by land.
(3) The amount of any expenses incurred shall be recoverable by action brought in
the name of the Attorney-General of the Federation.
41. Evidence as to orders, etc.
Any document purporting to be an order, notice or direction made or given by the
Minister for the purposes of this Act, and to be signed by him or on his behalf, shall be
received in evidence, and shall, until the contrary is proved, be deemed to be made or

-- 20 of 45 --

issued by him; and prima facie evidence of any such order, notice or direction may in any legal
proceedings, be given by the production of a document bearing a certificate pur-
porting to be signed by or on behalf of the Minister and stating that the document is a true
copy of the order, notice or direction.
42. Expenses
There shall be defrayed out of moneys provided by the National Assembly any ex-
penses incurred for the purposes of this Act by the Minister or the Minister of Health.
43. Court cases involving deportation to be accorded priority
(1) Where a person is charged with an offence upon conviction of which the offender
may be recommended under this or any other Act for deportation, the case shall be dealt
with in priority to any case, civil or criminal, other than a case part heard; and notwith-
standing the provisions of any other Act or enactment, the offender at the hearing may be
remanded in custody for a period not exceeding at anyone time of 21 days, and thereafter
as occasion may require, the offender may be again so remanded from time to time; but
in no case shall the total period on remand exceed two months.
(2) If no order is made by the Minister within such period or extended period as
aforesaid the offender may be dealt with as the court thinks fit; and where a sentence of
imprisonment is imposed, account shall be taken of the period during which the offender
was held in custody on remand.
44. Power of court to recommend deportation
Where a court of competent jurisdiction convicts an offender under any enactment for
an offence punishable by imprisonment without the option of a fine, the court may in
addition to or in lieu of sentence recommend the deportation of the offender, and the
Minister may order his deportation accordingly.
45. Power to detain in lieu of deportation
Notwithstanding any other provision of this or any other Act, where a deportation or-
der has been made, the Minister may direct the detention of the person affected for such
period as he thinks fit if, in his opinion the deportation is impracticable or prejudicial to
the efficient prosecution of any war in which Nigeria may be engaged, and the detention
of the person affected by the deportation order is necessary or expedient for securing
public safety, the defence of Nigeria, or the maintenance of public order.
46. Offences in connection with control of immigration
(1) If any person-
(a) 	while a refusal of admission is in force in relation to him enters or remains
within Nigeria otherwise than in accordance with the directions or under the
authority of an immigration officer; or
(b) 	contravenes or fails to comply with any condition imposed on him under this
Act,

-- 21 of 45 --

he shall be guilty of an offence; and any offence under this subsection, being an offence
committed by entering or remaining in Nigeria, shall be deemed to continue throughout
any period during which the offender is in Nigeria thereafter.
(2) If any person knowingly harbours any person whom he knows or has reasonable
grounds for believing to have committed an offence under subsection (l) of this section,
being an offence committed by entering or remaining within Nigeria, he shall be guilty of
an offence.
(3) If any person-
(a) 	makes or causes to be made to any immigration officer or other person law-
fully acting in the execution of this Act, any return, statement or representation
which he knows to be false or does not believe to be true; or
(b) 	refuses or fails to produce or furnish to any such officer or person any docu-
ment or information which he is required to produce or furnish to that officer
or person under this Act, or otherwise obstructs any such officer or person in
the exercise of his functions thereunder; or
(c) 	without lawful authority, alters any document issued or made under or for the
purposes for this Act, or uses for the purposes of this Act, or has in his posses-
sion for such use, any forged or altered passport or other travel document,
he shall be guilty of an offence.
47. Offences by immigrant employers and workers
It shall be an offence under this Act for any employer of persons liable to repatriation
to discharge any such persons without giving notice to the Director of Immigration; or for
any such employed person to change his employment without the approval of the Direc-
tor of Immigration; and upon conviction, the employer if not a citizen of Nigeria and the
employed person as the case may be and any dependants shall if the Minister thinks fit be
deported, and the business of the employer may be wound up as prescribed by this Act.
48. Penalties, proceedings, etc.
(1) A person guilty of an offence under this Act shall be liable on summary convic-
tion to a fine not exceeding N200 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
months or to both; and the court may if it thinks fit recommend the deportation of the
offender.
(2) For the purposes of the trial of a person for any offence under this Act, the of-
fence shall be deemed to have been committed either at the place at which it actually was
committed or at any place at which the offender may be.
(3) Any police officer or immigration officer may arrest without warrant any person
whom he has reasonable grounds to believe has committed an offence under subsec-
tion (1) of section 24 or subsection (1) of section 46 of this Act.
(4) Any powers exercisable under this Act in the case of any person may be exercised
notwithstanding that proceedings for an offence under this Act have been taken against
him.

-- 22 of 45 --

49. Power to appoint receiver, etc., where owner is deported
(1) Where it appears to the Minister expedient that any business previously con-
ducted or managed by any person who has been deported or under section 45 of this Act
is detained should be wound up, he may cause application to be made to the High Court
of a State or of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja as the case may be, for the appoint-
ment of a receiver or receiver and manager in respect of such business, and the High
Court shall have power to appoint a receiver or receiver and manager for such time and
subject to such conditions and with such modifications, restrictions or extensions of the
ordinary powers and duties of a receiver or receiver and manager as that court may think
fit.
(2) The High Court shall also have power to direct how and by whom the costs of
any proceeding under this section, and the remuneration, charges and expenses of the
receiver or receiver and manager shall be borne, and may order that the costs and ex-
penses be charged against the property of the person whose business is being wound up
in such order of priority in relation to any existing charges thereto as it thinks fit.
50. Special cases where entry may be refused
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to prohibit an immigration officer from refus-
ing entry into Nigeria of any person not a citizen of Nigeria if it appears to the immigra-
tion officer-
[1972 No.8.]
(a) 	that the person concerned is a prohibited immigrant; or
(b) 	that, where a visa is required, such person has no current visa; or
(c) 	that where a residence or other permit is required as a condition of entry it has
not been obtained; or
(d) 	on the advice of a medical inspector it is undesirable for medical reasons to
admit such person.
51. Regulations
(1) The Minister may make all such regulations as in his opinion are necessary or ex-
pedient for giving full effect to the provisions of this Act and for the due administration
thereof.
(2) Without limiting the generality of the provisions of subsection (1) of this section,
regulations may be made for all or any of the following purposes-
(a) 	for the control of aliens resident in Nigeria;
(b) 	for the establishment of a uniformed immigration service and the terms and
conditions of employment therein;
(b) 	for the imposition of penalties for the breach of any regulations not exceeding
a fine of N100 or imprisonment for six months or of both.
52. Interpretation
(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-
"alien" means any person not a commonwealth citizen or a citizen of Eire;

-- 23 of 45 --

"aliens officer" means any person appointed for the control of aliens and includes an
immigration officer;
"crew" in relation to a ship or aircraft, means all persons actually employed in the
working or service of the ship or aircraft including the master of the ship and commander
of the aircraft, and "member of the crew" shall be construed accordingly;
"enter" with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions includes land;
"immigrant" means any person other than a citizen of Nigeria or person accorded
immunity by reason of diplomatic status who enters or seeks to enter Nigeria;
"immigration officer" means any officer appointed for the control of immigration
under this Act;
"land" means (subject to subsection (2) of this section) land from a ship or aircraft,
and "embark" shall be construed accordingly;
"leave" with grammatical variations and cognate expressions includes embark;
"Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibility for immigration;
"passport" means with reference to the person producing it, a travel document fur-
nished with a photograph of such person and issued to him by or on behalf of the country
of which he is a subject or a citizen and for a period which, according to the laws of that
country, has not expired, and includes any other similar document approved by the Min-
ister establishing the nationality and identity of the person to whom it refers to the satis-
faction of an immigration officer;
"permit" includes pass;
"prescribed" means prescribed by this Act or by regulations or any order under this
Act;
"prohibited immigrant" includes any person liable to be refused entry or to be de-
ported under this Act;
"recognised port" or "port of entry" means in respect of person landing from or
embarking in an aircraft, any recognised airport where there are facilities for customs,
health and immigration inspection, and in respect of persons landing from or embarking
in a ship or otherwise arri ving in or departing from Nigeria, means any place where there
ere the like facilities;
"travel documents" for entry into Nigeria include in any proper case a visa and em-
ployment papers, and international certificates of health valid for such entry, and where a
citizen of Nigeria is departing, include any visa, employment papers and international
certificates of health valid for entry into or travel through any other country, as the case
may require;

-- 24 of 45 --

"visa" means an impress or endorsement by any means on a travel document, pur-
porting to be signed and dated by an officer appointed for that purpose by or on behalf of
the Government of Nigeria, and authorising entry into or transit across Nigeria subject to
compliance with any special requirements prescribed by the immigration authorities at a
port of entry, and valid for specified time and for the number of journeys stated therein.
(2) References in this Act to person landing in Nigeria from or arriving at ports in
Nigeria as members of the crews of ships or aircraft, do not include references to persons
landing from a ship or aircraft which began its voyage at a place in and has not during the
voyage called at any place outside Nigeria, or arriving as members of the crew in such a
ship or aircraft.
(3) Where by this Act, any power to institute proceedings or to recover moneys is
vested in the Attorney-General of the Federation, that power may, with the consent given
either generally or specially by such Attorney-General, be exercised in his name by any
authorised immigration officer.
(4) For the avoidance of doubt-
(a) 	a person seeking entry shall be treated as in Nigeria after he has complied with
all formalities prescribed for inspection by immigration, health and customs
authorities, and whether the compliance is subject to conditions or otherwise;
(b) 	any permit issued under any repealed Act and valid immediately before the
commencement of this Act, shall on the commencement thereof be deemed to
have been issued under this Act for the unexpired balance of the term of the
permit and may be dealt with accordingly.
53. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Immigration Act.
IMMIGRATION ACT