1. Establishment and composition of Industrial Inspectorate Division
(1) There shall be established as an integral part of the Federal Ministry of Industries
division to be known as the Industrial Inspectorate Division (hereafter in this Act re‐
ferred to as "the division") which shall, subject to the overall control and direction of the
Minister, have the powers and exercise the functions conferred by or under this Act.
(2) The division shall consist of a Director and such number of inspectors as may,
from time to time, be required to assist the Director.
(3) The Director and inspectors shall be members of the public service of the Federa‐
tion within the meaning of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999.
[Cap. C23.]
(4) Any person who may be appointed as a Director or inspector shall have such
qualifications and experience as are appropriate for a person required to perform the
functions conferred by or under this Act.
2. Duties of the Division
(1) It shall be the duty of the division generally to carry out investigations into any
proposed, new and existing undertaking involving any proposed capital expenditure, and
in particular, for the purposes of determining the investment valuation of the
undertaking,
that is‐
(a) 	the actual capital (whether foreign or local) employed or proposed to be
employed in the undertaking;
(b) 	the actual valuation of buildings, plants and other machinery employed or
proposed to be employed in the undertaking and any addition thereto.
(2) The division shall also obtain necessary information on economic trends in the
country and for this purpose the division shall‐
(a) 	prepare and keep detailed records of matters relating to any undertaking
investigated by it;
(b) 	as far as possible prepare and keep records of all industrial plants and equipment
in the country, their value and the value of similar plants and equipment in other
countries.
3. Notice of intention to incur capital expenditure, etc.
(1) As from the commencement of this Act, any person proposing‐
(a) 	to start a new undertaking involving the expenditure of not less than twenty
thousand naira; or
(b) 	to incur additional capital expenditure of not less than twenty thousand naira in
respect of an existing undertaking,
shall give to the Director notice of his intention in the form specified in the First