1.--(1) As from the commencement of this Act, any Federal Government Ministry,
Agency, Corporation or body involved in the financing, construction, operation or
maintenance of infrastructure, by whatever name called, may enter into a contract with
or grant concession to any duly pre-qualified project proponent in the private sector
for the financing, construction, operation or maintenance of any infrastructure that is
financially viable or any development facility of the Federal Government in accordance
with the provisions of this Act.
(2) This Act applies to investment and development projects relating to any
infrastructure of any Federal Government ministry, agency, corporation or body.
2.--(1) Every Federal Government Ministry, Agency, Corporation or body shall
prioritize its infrastructure projects and such priority projects may be qualified for
concession under this Act.
(2) The projects mentioned in Subsection (1) of this section shall be submitted to
the Federal Executive Council for approval on the recommendation of the relevant
sector, ministry or agency prior to entering into any contract under Section 1 of this
Act.
(3) In entering into any contract or granting any concession under section 1 of
this Act, the Federal Government Ministry, Agency, Corporation or body shall ensure
that the project proponent possesses the financial capacity, relevant expertise and
experience in undertaking such infrastructure development or maintenance.
(4) The Commission established under section 14 of this Act shall publish, in the
Federal Gazette and at least three national newspapers having wide circulation in
Nigeria, and such other means of circulation, the list of projects eligible for contract for
the financing, construction, operation or maintenance of any infrastructure under this
Act.
3. No Federal Government Ministry, Agency, Corporation or body shall give
any guarantee, letter of comfort or undertaking in respect of any concession
made pursuant to this Act, except with the approval of the Federal Executive Council.
.
Commence-
ment
Conduct with
Private
Sector for
the
construction,
maintenance
of Federal
Infrastructures,
Etc.
Priority
Projects.
Guarantee on
Concession
agreement

-- 3 of 15 --

2005 No. 18 Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission
(Establishment, Etc.) Act
4.-(1) Upon an approval for any project or contract for financing, construction,
operation or maintenance of any infrastructure or development project under this
Act, the Federal Government Ministry, Agency, Corporation or body concerned
shall, by publication in at least three national newspapers having wide circulation in
Nigeria, and such other means of circulation, invite open competitive public bid for
such project or contract approved under this Act.
(2) With respect to projects under this Act, the concession contract shall be
awarded to the bidder who, having satisfied the pre-qualification criteria, submits the
most technically and economically responsive bid.
(3) Where a consortium participates in a bid under this section, there shall be
proof by the consortium that all its members shall be bound jointly and severally
under the contract and the withdrawal of any member of the consortium before or
during the implementation of the project may be a ground for review or possible
cancellation of the contract.
5. Notwithstanding Section 4 of this Act, and if after advertisement in accordance
with section 4 of this Act-
(a) only one contractor or project proponent applied or submits a bid or proposal,
or
(b) only one contractor or project proponent meet the prequalification
requirements, the Ministry, Agency, Corporation, body may undertake direct
negotiation without competitive bidding for any contract to be entered into pursuant
to section 1 of this Act.
6. The duration of any concession shall be as may be specified in the agreement
or contract governing the concession.
7.-(1) Any project proponent or contractor who enters into any contract for
financing, construction, operation or maintenance may, subject to the provisions of
the concession contract, recover his investments.
(2) Notwithstanding Subsection (1) of this section, the project proponent or
contractor shall-
(a) undertake appropriate insurance policy on the concession with an insurance
company approved by the National Insurance Commission; and
(b) undertake the maintenance and repairs of the infrastructure or facility during
the subsistence of the contract.
(3) Subject to subsection (4) of this section, the amount expended by any
project proponent or contractor who enters into any contract for financing,
construction, operation or maintenance under any concession under this Act may be
repaid by the relevant Ministry, Agency, Corporation, or body to such proponent or
contractor, by way of amortization payments.
(4) Any contractor to whom any concession has been granted under this Act
shall make payment to the Federal Government, of such sum and at such intervals,
Competitive
public
bidding for
projects and
contracts
Circumstances
where
competitive
bidding for
contracts
may not be
necessary.
Duration or
Concession.
Recovery or
Investment.
etc.

-- 4 of 15 --

Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission 2005 No. 18
(Establishment, Etc.) Act
from the proceeds realized from the implementation of the concession as may be provided
in the concession contract or agreement.
8. Project cost shall be duly authenticated by the relevant Ministry or government
department and relevant qualified professional to determine correctly the amount to
be repaid by amortization.
9. There shall be a Special Concession Account into which shall be credited
money accruing to the government and from which shall be defrayed monies to be paid
in respect of the concession scheme.
10. The Commission and Federal Government Ministry, Agency, Corporation or
body shall have the power at any reasonable hour during the day time to enter upon
and inspect any land or asset comprised in any concession granted or contract executed
pursuant to this Act for the construction or erection of any infrastructure project and
it shall be the duty of the project proponent, the contractor or anyone acting on its
behalf to permit and give free access to enter and inspect.
11. No agreement reached in respect of this Act shall be arbitrarily suspended,
stopped, cancelled or changed except in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
12. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the relevant Federal Government
Ministry, Agency Corporation or body shall supervise the project in respect of which
concession has been granted by it under this Act.
13. Every contractor to whom any concession has been granted under this Act
shall have a right of way or casement in respect of any land or property near to or
bordering the project site or facility as may be reasonably necessary for the proper
implementation of the project under this Act.
PART 11- ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INF'RASTRUCTURE CONCESSION REGULATORY
COMMISSION, ETC.
14.- (1) There is established a body to be known as the infrastructure Concession
Regulatory Commission (in this Act referred to as "the Commission").
(2) The Commission-
(a) shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal;
(b) may sue or be sued in its corporate name; and
(c) may acquire, hold or dispose of any property, movable or immovable for the
purpose of carrying out any of its functions under this Act.
(3). The headquarters of the Commission shall be located in the Federal Capital
Territory, Abuja.
15.-(1) There is established for the Commission, a Governing Board (in this
Act, referred to as "the Board") which shall have overall control of the Commission.
Authentication
of Project
cost.
Establishment
of Special
Account. etc.
Power to
inspect.
Arbitrary
variation of
agreements.
Supervision
of project
under
concession.
Right of way.
etc.
The
establishment
of the
Infrastructure
Concession
Regulation,
Commission,
etc.
Establishment
of the
Governing
Board for the
Commission.

-- 5 of 15 --

2005 No. 18 Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission
(Establishment, Etc.)Act
(2) The Board consists of-
(a) A part -time Chairman;
(b) the Attorney-General of the Federation;
(c) the Minister of Finance;
(d) the Secretary to the Government of the Federation:
(e) the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria ;
(f) one person each from the six geopolitical zones of Nigeria who shall each
have cognate experience and expertise in law, business administration, engineering,
economics or public administration and two of whom shall be women; and
(g) the Director-General of the Commission.
(3) The Chairman and members of the Commission, other than ex-officio
members, shall be appointed by the President subject to confirmation by the Senate.
(4) The supplementary provisions set out in the Schedule to this Act shall have
effect with respect to the proceedings of the Board and the other matters mentioned
therein.
16. The Chairman and other members of the Commission, other than ex-officio
members shall each hold office-
(a) for a term of 4 years in the first instance and may be re-appointed for a further
term of 4 years; and
(b) on such terms and conditions as may be specified in his letter of appointment.
(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 15 of this Act, a member of the
Board shall cease to hold office as a member of the Board if-
(a) he resigns his appointment as a member of the Board by notice, under his
hand, addressed to the President;
(b) he becomes of unsound mind;
(c) he becomes bankrupt or makes a compromise with his creditors;
(d) he is convicted of a felony or of any offence involving dishonesty or
corruption,
(e) he becomes incapable of carrying out the functions of his office either
arising from an infirmity of mind or body; or
(f) the President is satisfied that it is not in the interest of the Commission or in
the interest of the public for the person to continue in office and the President
removes him from office.
(2) Where a vacancy occurs in the membership of the Board, it shall be filled by
the appointment of a successor to hold office for the remainder of the term of office of
his predecessor, so however that the successor shall represent the same interest as
his predecessor.