2. Election of
President and Vice-President of the Institute

(1) There shall be a President and a Vice-President of the Institute who, shall be fel-
lows of the Institute, to be elected by the Council and hold office each for a term of two
years from the date of election.

(2) The President shall be chairman at meetings of the Institute, so however that, in
the event of the death, incapacity or inability for any reason of the President, the Vice-
President shall act in his stead for the unexpired portion of the term of office, or as the
case may require, and references in this Act to the President shall be construed accord-
ingly.

(3) The President and the Vice-President shall respectively be chairman and vice-
chairman of the Council established by section 3 of this Act.

(4) If the President or Vice-President ceases to be a member of the Institute he shall
ipso facto cease to hold any of the offices designated under this section.

3.
Governing Council

(1)  There shall be, as the governing body of the Institute, a Council charged with responsibility for the administration and general management of the Institute.

(2) The Council shall consist of the following members, being fellows or associate

members appointed, or elected as the case may be, as follows, that is-

(a)       the President of the Institute, who shall be the chairman;

(b)       the Vice-President of the Institute, who shall be the vice-chairman;

(c)        five persons appointed by the Minister;

(d)       fifteen persons elected by the Institute; and

(e)         past Presidents of the Institute who shall be entitled to serve on the Council for a maximum period of five years from the expiration of their terms of office as President.

(3) The provisions of the First Schedule to this Act shall have effect with respect to
the qualifications and tenure of office of members of the Council and the other matters
therein mentioned.

[First Schedule.]

(4) Regulations made by the Council with the approval of the Minister may provide
for an increase or reduction in the membership of the Council and may make such
amendments of subsection (1) of this section and The First Schedule to this Act as the
Minister considers expedient for the purpose of or in consequence of the increase or re-
duction.

4.
Fund of the Institute

(1) There shall be established for the Institute a fund which shall be managed and
controlled by the Council.

(2) There shall be paid into the fund established pursuant to subsection (1) of this
section-

(a)      all fees and other moneys payable to the Council in pursuance of the Act;

(b)      such moneys as may be payable to the Council whether in the course of the
discharge of its functions or otherwise; and

(c)       such moneys as are held by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Admin-
istrators in Nigeria incorporated under the Companies and Allied Matters Act
(in this Act hereafter referred to as "the Incorporated Institute") on its ceasing
to exist as provided in this Act.

[Cap. C20.]

(3) There shall be paid out of the fund of the Institute-

(a)      all expenditure incurred by the Council in the discharge of its functions under
this Act;

(b)      the remuneration and allowances of the Registrar and other staff of the Insti-
tute; and

(c)       such reasonable travelling and subsistence allowance of members of the Council in respect of the time spent on the duties of the Council as the Council may, with the approval of the Minister, determine.

(4) The Council may invest moneys in the fund in any security created or issued by
or on behalf of the Government of the Federation or in any other securities in Nigeria
approved by the Council.

(5) The Council may, form time to time, borrow money for the purposes of the Insti-
tute and any interest payable on moneys so borrowed shall be paid out of the fund.

(6) The Council shall keep proper accounts on behalf of the Institute in respect of
each year and proper records in relation to those accounts; and the Council shall cause the
accounts to be audited by an auditor appointed from the list and in accordance with the
guidelines supplied by the Auditor-General for the Federation.

(7) The auditor, appointed for the purposes of this section, shall not be a member of
the Council.

5.  Tra
nsfer to the Institute of certain assets and liabilities
(1) On the commencement of this Act-

(a)      all assets and liabilities held or incurred immediately before that day by or on
behalf of the Incorporated Institute shall by virtue of this Act and without fur-
ther assurance, vest in the Institute and be held by it for the purposes of the In-
stitute;

(b)       the Incorporated Institute shall cease to exist; and

(c)       subject to subsection (2) of this section, any act or thing made or done by the
Incorporated Institute shall be deemed to have been made or done by the In-
stitute.

(2) The provision of the Second Schedule to this Act shall have effect with respect to
matters arising from the transfer by this section to the Institute of the property of the In-
corporated Institute and with respect to the other matters mentioned therein.

[Second Schedule.]

6. Appointment of Registrar, etc.

(1) It shall be the duty of the Council to appoint a fit and proper person who shall be a member of the Institute to be the Registrar for the purposes of this Act, and such other
persons as the Institute may, from time to time, think necessary.

(2) It shall be the duty of the Registrar to prepare and maintain in accordance with
rules made by the Council, a register of names, addresses and approved qualifications and
of such other particulars as may be specified in the rules, of all persons who are entitled
in accordance with the provisions of this Act to be enrolled as fellows or associates or
registered graduates or registered students and who, in the manner prescribed by such
rules, apply to be so registered.

(3) The register shall consist of three parts of which one part shall be in respect of
fellows, the second part shall be in respect of associates and the third part shall be in re-
spect of registered graduates.

(4) Subject to the following provisions of this section, the Council shall make rules
with respect to the form and keeping of the register and the making of entries therein and

(a)       regulating the making of applications for enrolment or registration, as the case
may be and providing for the evidence to be produced in support of applica-
tions;

(b)      providing for the notification to the Registrar, by the person to whom any reg-
istered particulars relate, of any change in those particulars;

(c)       authorising an enrolled or a registered person to have any qualification which
is, in relation to the relevant division of the profession, either an approved
qualification for the purposes of this Act, registered in relation to his name in
addition to or, as he may elect, in substitution for any other qualifications so
registered;

(d)       specifying the fees, including any annual subscription, to be paid to the Insti-
tute in respect of the entry of names on the register, and authorising the Regis-
trar to refuse to enter a name on the register until any fee specified for the en-
try has been paid;

(e)       specifying anything falling to be specified under the foregoing provisions of
this section.

(5) Rules made for the purposes of paragraph (d) of subsection 4 of this section shall
not come into force until confirmed at a special meeting of the Institute convened for the
purpose thereafter, or at the next annual general meeting, as the case may be.

(6) It shall be the duty of the Registrar-

(a)      to correct, in accordance with the directions of the Council, any entry in the
register which the Council directs him to correct as being in the opinion of the
Council an entry which was incorrectly made;

(b)      to make, form time to time, any necessary alterations in the registered particu-
lars of registered persons;

(c)       to record the names of members of the Institute who are in default for more
than six months in the payment of annual subscriptions, and to take such action
in relation thereto (including removal of the names of defaulters from the reg-
ister) as the Council may direct or require.

(7) If the Registrar-

(a)      sends by post to any registered person a registered letter addressed to that per-
son at his address on the register enquiring whether the registered particulars
relating to him are correct and receives no reply to the letter within the period
of six months from the date of posting it; and

(b)      upon the expiration of that period sends in the like manner to the person in
question a second similar letter and receives no reply to that letter within three
months from the date of posting it,

the Registrar may remove the particulars relating to the person from the register and the
Council may direct the Registrar to restore to the appropriate part of the register any par-
ticulars removed therefrom under this subsection.

7. Publication of register and list of corrections(1) It shall be the duty of the Registrar-

(a)       to cause the register to be printed, published and put on sale to members of the public not later than two years from the appointed day;

(b)       in each year after that in which the register is first published under para-
graph (a) of this subsection, to cause to be printed, published and put on sale as
aforesaid, either a corrected edition of the register or a list of alterations made
to the register since it was last printed; and

(c)        to cause a print of each edition of the register and of each list of corrections to be deposited at the principal office of the Institute, and it shall be the duty of
the Council to keep the register and lists so deposited available at all reason-
able times for inspection by members of the public.

(2) A document purporting to be a print of an edition of the register published under
this section by authority of the Registrar or documents purporting to be prints of an edi-
tion of the register so published and of a list of corrections to that edition so published,
shall (without prejudice to any other mode of proof) be admissible in any proceedings as
evidence that any person specified in the document, or the documents read together, as
being registered, was so registered at the date of the edition or of the list of corrections, as the case may be, and that any person not so specified was not so registered.

(3) Where in accordance with subsection (2) of this section, a person is in any pro-
ceedings, shown to have been or not to have been registered at a particular date, he shall,
unless the contrary is proved, be taken for the purposes of those proceedings as having at
. all material times thereafter continued to be or not to be so registered.

8. Registration of chartered secretaries and administrators

(1) Subject to section 14 of this Act and to rules made under section 6 of this Act, a
person shall be entitled to be enrolled or registered as a chartered secretary and administrator if

(a)       he passes the qualifying examination for membership conducted by the Council under the Act and completes the practical training prescribed; or

(b)       he holds a qualification granted outside Nigeria and for the time being accepted by the Institute and satisfies the Council that he has had sufficient practical experience as a chartered secretary and administrator.

(2) An applicant for registration shall, in addition to evidence of qualification, satisfy

the Council that-

(a)       he is of good character and high integrity;

(b)       he had attained the age of 21 years; and

(c)       he has not been convicted in Nigeria or elsewhere of an offence involving fraud, dishonesty or gross misconduct.

(3) The Council may, in its sole discretion, provisionally accept a qualification pro-
duced in respect of an application for registration under this section, or direct that the
application be renewed within such period as may be specified in the direction.

(4) Any entry directed to be made in the register under subsection (3) of this section,
shall show that the registration is provisional and no entry so made shall be converted to
full registration without the consent of the Council signified in writing in that behalf.

(5) The Council shall, from time to time, publish in the Gazette particulars of qualifi-
cations for the time being acceptable for enrollment or registration by the Institute.

9.  A
pproval of qualifications, etc.

(1) The council may approve any qualifications for the purposes of this Act and may
for those purposes approve-

(a)          any course of training at an approved institution which is intended for persons
who are seeking to become or are already chartered secretaries and adminis-
trators and which the Council considers is designed to confer on persons com-
pleting it sufficient knowledge and skill for admission to the Institute;

(b)          any qualification which, as a result of an examination taken in conjunction
with a course of training approved by the Council under this section, is granted
to candidates reaching a standard at the examination, indicating in the opinion
of the Council that the candidates have sufficient knowledge and skill to prac-
tise as chartered secretaries and administrators.

(2) The Council may, if it thinks fit, withdraw any approval given under this section
in respect of any course, qualification or institution but before withdrawing such an ap-
proval the Council shall-

(a)         give notice that it proposes to do so to each person in Nigeria appearing to the
Council to be a person by whom the course is conducted or the qualification is
granted or the institution is controlled, as the case may be;

(b)         afford such person an opportunity of making to the Council representations with regard to the proposal; and

(c)          take into consideration any representation made as respects the proposal in
pursuance of paragraph (b) of this subsection.

(3) As respects any period during which the approval of the Council under this sec-
tion for a course, qualification or institution is withdrawn, the course, qualification or
institution shall not be treated as approved under this section but the withdrawal of such
an approval shall not prejudice the registration or eligibility for registration of any person
who, by virtue of the approval was registered or eligible for registration (either uncondi-
tionally or subject to his obtaining a certificate or experience) immediately before the
approval was withdrawn.

(4) The giving or withdrawal of an approval under this section shall have effect from
such date, either before or after the execution of the instrument and the Council shall-

(a)       as soon as may be, publish a copy of every such instrument in the Gazette; and

(b)       not later than seven days before its publication, send a copy of the instrument
to the Minister.

10. Supervision
of instruction, etc.

(1) It shall be the duty of the Council to keep itself informed of the nature of-

(a)       the instruction given at approved institutions to persons attending approved
courses of training; and

(b)       the examinations as a result of which approved qualifications are granted, and
for the purposes of performing that duty the Council may appoint a committee,
either from among its own members or otherwise, to visit approved institutions
or to attend such examinations.

(2) It shall be the duty of the committee appointed under subsection (1) of this sec-
tion to report to the Council on-

(a)      the adequacy of the instruction given to persons attending approved courses of training at institutions visited by it;

(b)       the adequacy of the examinations attended by it; and

(c)       any matters relating to the institutions or examinations which the Council may, either generally or in a particular case, request it to report,

but no member of the committee shall interfere with the giving of any instruction or the
holding or any examination.

(3) On receipt of a report made in pursuance of this section, the Council may, if it
thinks fit and shall, if so required by the Institute, send a copy of the report to the person
appearing to the Council to be in charge of the institution or responsible for the examina-
tions to which the report relates requesting that person to make observations on the report
to the Council within such period as may be specified in the request, not being less than
one month beginning with the date of the request.

11. Establishment of Disciplinary Tribunal and Investigating Panel

(1) There shall be established a body to be known as the Chartered Secretaries and
Administrators Disciplinary Tribunal (in this Act referred to as "the Tribunal") which
shall be charged with the duty of considering and determining any case referred to it by
the panel established under subsection (3) of this section, and any other case of which the
Tribunal has cognisance under the following provisions of this Act.

(2) The Tribunal shall consist of the chairman of the Council and six other members
of the Council appointed by the Council.

(3) There shall be a body, to be known as the Chartered Secretaries and Administra-
tors Investigating Panel (in this Act referred to as "the Panel") which shall be charged
with the duty of-

(a)       conducting a preliminary investigation into any case where it is alleged that a
member has misbehaved in his capacity as a chartered secretary and adminis-
trator or should for any other reason be the subject or proceedings before the
Tribunal; and

(b)       deciding whether the case should be referred to the Tribunal.

(4) The Panel shall be appointed by the Council and shall consist of two members of
the Council and one chartered secretary and administrator who is not a member of the
Council.

(5) The provisions of the Third Schedule to this Act shall so far as they are applicable
to the Tribunal and Panel respectively, have effect with respect to those bodies.

[Third Schedule.]

(6) The Council may make rules not inconsistent with this Act as to acts which con-
stitute professional misconduct.

12.
Penalties for unprofessional conduct, etc.

(1) Where-

(a)              a person enrolled or registered under this Act is judged by the Tribunal to be
guilty of infamous conduct in any professional respect; or

(b)              a person enrolled or registered under this Act is convicted, by any court in Ni-
geria or elsewhere having power of competent jurisdiction, of an offence
(whether or not punishable with imprisonment) which in the opinion of the
Tribunal is incompatible with the status of a chartered secretary and adminis-
trator; or

(c)               the Tribunal is satisfied that the name of any person has been fraudulently en-
rolled or registered,

the Tribunal may, if it thinks fit give a direction reprimanding that person or ordering the
Registrar to strike his name off the relevant part of the register.

(2) The Tribunal may, if it thinks fit, defer or further defer its decision as to the giv-
ing of a direction under subsection (1) of this section until a subsequent meeting of the
tribunal.

(3) No decision of the Tribunal shall be deferred under subsection (2) of this section
for periods exceeding one year in the aggregate.

(4) As far as possible, no person shall be a member of the Tribunal for the purposes
of reaching a decision which has been deferred or further deferred, unless he was present
as a member of the Tribunal when the decision was deferred.

(5) For the purposes of subsection (1) of this section, a person shall not be treated as
convicted unless the conviction stands at a time when no appeal or further appeal is pend-
ing or may (without extension of time) be brought in connection with the conviction.

(6) When the Tribunal gives a direction under subsection (1) of this section, the tri-
bunal shall cause notice of the direction to be served on the person to whom it relates.

(7) The person to whom a direction given under subsection (1) of this section relates
may, at any time within 28 days from the date of service on him of notice of the direction,
appeal against the direction to the Federal High Court; and the Tribunal may appear as
respondent to the appeal and, for the purpose of enabling directions to be given as to the
costs of the appeal and of proceedings before the Tribunal, the tribunal shall be deemed
to be a party thereto whether or not it appears on the hearing of the appeal.

(8) A direction of the Tribunal given under subsection (1) of this section shall take
effect where-

(a)       no appeal under this section is brought against the direction within the time limited for such an appeal, or on the expiration of that time;

(b)        such an appeal is brought and is withdrawn or struck out for want of prosecution, on the withdrawal or striking out of the appeal;

(c)        such an appeal is brought and is not withdrawn or struck out as aforesaid, if
and when the appeal is dismissed.

(9) A person whose name is removed from the register in pursuance of a direction of
the Tribunal under this section shall not be entitled to be registered again except in pursu-
ance of a direction in that behalf given by the Tribunal on the application of that person.

(10) A direction under this section for the removal of a person's name from the reg-
ister may prohibit an application under subsection (9) of this section by that person until
the expiration of such period from the date of the direction (and where he has duly made
such an application, from the date of his last application) or as may be specified in the
direction.

13. When persons are deemed to practise as chartered secretaries and administrators

(1) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, a person shall be deemed to practise as a
chartered secretary and administrator if, in consideration of remuneration received or to
be received, and whether by himself or in partnership with any other person, he-

(a)              engages himself in the practice of chartered secretaryship and administration or holds himself out to the public as a chartered secretary and administrator; or

(b)              renders professional service or assistance in or about matters of principle or
detail relating to chartered secretaryship and administration; or

(c)               renders any other service which may by regulations made by the Council, with
the approval of the Minister, be designated as service constituting practice as
chartered secretary and. administrator.

(2) Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to apply to persons who, while in
the employment of any government or person, are required under the terms or in the
course of such employment, to perform the duties of a chartered secretary and adminis-
trator or any of them.

14. Rules as to articles, etc.

(1) The Council may make rules for-

(a)      the training with chartered secretaries and administrators of suitable persons in chartered secretaryship and administration methods and practice;

(b)      the supervision and regulation of the engagement, training and transfer of such persons; and

(c)        the provision of articles.

(2) The Council may also make rules-

(a)       prescribing the amount and date for payment of the annual subscription and
annual renewal of studentship and for such purpose different amounts may be
prescribed by the rules according as the member of the Institute is a fellow, as-
sociate or a registered graduate;

(b)       prescribing the form of licence to practise to be issued annually or if the Council thinks fit, by endorsement on an existing licence;

(c)        restricting the right to practise as a chartered secretary and administrator in
default of payment of the amount of the annual subscription where the default continues for longer than such period as may be prescribed by the rules;

(d)       restricting the right to practise as a chartered secretary and administrator if the qualification granted outside Nigeria does not entitle the holder to practise as a
chartered secretary and administrator; and

(e)       prescribing the period of practical training in the office of a chartered secretary and administrator in practice to be completed before a person qualifies for enrollment or a licence to practise as a chartered secretary and administrator.

(3) Rules when made shall, if the chairman of the Council so directs, be published in
the Gazette.

15. Provision of library
The Institute shall-

(a)       provide and maintain a library comprising books and publications for the ad-
vancement of knowledge of chartered secretaryship and administration, and
such other books and publications as the Council may think necessary for the
purpose;

(b)       encourage research into chartered secretaryship and administration and allied
subjects to the extent that the Council may, from time to time, consider necessary.

16. Regulations

(1) Any regulations, made under this Act shall be published in the Gazette as soon as
may be after they are made; and the Minister shall as soon as may be after they are so
published lay a copy of any such regulation before the President.

(2) Rules made for the purposes of this Act shall be subject to confirmation by the In-
stitute at its next annual meeting or any special meeting of the Institute convened for the
purpose, and if then annulled shall cease to have effect on the day after the date of an-
nulment, but without prejudice to anything done in pursuance or intended pursuance of
any such rules.

17.
Offences and penalties

(1) If any person for the purpose of procuring the enrolment or registration of any
name, qualification or other matter-

(a)       makes a statement which he believes to be false in a material particular; or

(b)       recklessly makes a statement which is false in a material particular,

he is guilty of an offence.

(2) If, on or after the relevant date, any person who is not a member of the Institute
practises as a chartered secretary and administrator for or in expectation of reward or
takes or uses any name, title, addition or description implying that he is in practice as a
chartered secretary and administrator, he is guilty of an offence.

(3) If the Registrar or any other person employed by or on behalf of the Institute wil-
fully makes any falsification in any matter relating to the register he is guilty of an of-
fence.

(4) A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable-

(a)       on summary conviction, to a fine of an amount not exceeding N1,000; or

(b)      on conviction on indictment to a fine of an amount not exceeding N5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or to both such fine and im-
prisonment.

(5) Where an offence under this section which has been committed by a body corpo-
rate is proved to have been committed with the consent or connivance of or to be attribut-
able to any neglect on the part of any director, manager, secretary or other similar officer
of the body corporate or any person purporting to act in any such capacity, he as well as
the body corporate shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly.

(6) In this section, "the relevant date" means the first anniversary of the com-
mencement of this Act.

18. Interpretation

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"appointed day" means the day this Act comes into force;

"chartered secretary and administrator" means a chartered secretary and administrator enrolled as a fellow or associate member of the Institute;

"Council" means the Council established as the governing body of the Institute under
section 3 of this Act;

"enrolled" in relation to a fellow or an associate member, means registered in the part
of the register relating to fellow or associate members, as the case may be;

"fees" includes annual subscriptions;

"Incorporated Institute" means the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators incorporated under the repealed Companies Act No. 1968;

[1968 No. 51.]

"Institute" means the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators of Nige-
ria established under section 1 of this Act;

"member" means a member of the Council and includes the President and Vice-
President;

"Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibility for matters relating to
education;

"Panel" has the meaning assigned thereto by section 11 of this Act;

"President" and "Vice-President" means respectively the office holders under those
names in the Institute;

"register" means the register maintained in pursuance of section 6 of this Act;

"Registered graduate" means a member of the Institute who is not a fellow or an as-
sociate member; and

"Tribunal" has the meaning assigned thereto by section 11 of this Act.

19. Short title

This Act may be cited as the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators of
Nigeria Act.