1. Establishment of the Institute of Chartered Chemists of Nigeria
(1) There is hereby established a body to be known as the Institute of Chartered
Chemists of Nigeria (in this Act referred to as "the Institute") which shall be a body cor-
porate under that name and be charged with the general duty of-
(a) determining what standards of knowledge and skill are to be attained by per-
sons seeking to become registered as chemists and raising those standards from
time to time as circumstances may permit;
(b) securing in accordance with the provisions of this Act the establishment and
maintenance of a register of fellows, associate members, professional mem-

-- 1 of 18 --

bers, ordinary members and honorary fellows and members of the Institute and
the publication from time to time of the lists of those persons; and
(c) performing through the Council established by section 2 of this Act the func-
tions conferred on it by this Act.
(2) The Institute shall have perpetual succession and a common seal which shall be
kept in such custody as the Council may, from time to time, authorise.
(3) The Institute may sue and be sued in its corporate name and may, subject to the
Land Use Act, hold, acquire and dispose of any property, movable or immovable.
[Cap. L5.]
2. Governing Council of the Institute and membership, etc.
(1) There is hereby established for the Institute a Governing Council of the Institute
(in this Act referred to as "the Council") which shall be charged with responsibility for
the administration and general management of the Institute.
(2) The Council shall consist of the following members, that is-
(a) the President of the Institute, who shall be the chairman;
(b) the Vice-President of the Institute, who shall be the vice-chairman;
(c) a representative of the Ministry of Health;
(d) ten persons to be elected by the Institute;
(e) past Presidents of the Institute who shall be entitled to serve on the Council for
a maximum period of three years from the expiration of their terms of office as
President of the Institute;
(f) two persons to represent institutions of higher learning in Nigeria offering
courses leading to approved qualifications, to be appointed by the Minister of
Health in rotation; and
(g) the Registrar of the Institute who shall also be the secretary to the Council.
(3) The provisions set out in the First Schedule to this Act shall have effect with re-
spect to the qualifications and tenure of office of members of the Council and the other
matters therein mentioned.
[First Schedule.]
3. Election of President and Vice-President of the Institute
(1) There shall be for the Institute a President and a Vice-President who shall be fel-
lows of the Institute, to be elected by the Council and hold office each for a term of two
years from the date of election.
(2) The President shall be chairman at meetings of the Institute, so however that, in
the event of the death, incapacity or inability for any reason of the President, the Vice-
President shaH act in his stead for the unexpired portion of the term of office, or as the
case may require, and references in this Act to the President shall be construed accord-
ingly.
(3) The President and the Vice-President shall respectively be chairman and vice-
chairman of the Council established by section 2 of this Act.
(4) If the President or Vice-President ceases to be a member of the Institute he shall
ipso facto cease to hold any of the offices designated under this section.
4. Admission into the Institute
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, members admitted to the Institute shaH-
(a) be enrolled as chemists in the category of-
(i) fellows; or
(ii) associate members; or
(iii) professional members;
(b) be registered as chemists or such other classification of chemist as the

-- 2 of 18 --

Institute may, from time to time, determine.
(2) A person accorded status as a chemist by the Council established by this Act shall
be entitled to the use of that name and be registered as-
(a) a fellow if-
(i) he has been registered as an associate member of the Institute, or has
been qualified to be so registered, for at least seven years and he satisfies the
Council that for a continuous period of ten years immediately preceding the
application he has been in practice as a chemist or in partnership with other
chemists; and
(ii) he is otherwise considered by the Council to be a fit person to be so
registered;
(b) an associate member if-
(i) he has been registered as a professional member of the Institute or has
been qualified to be so registered for at least six years immediately preceding the
application; and
(ii) he is otherwise considered by the Council to be a fit person to be so
registered;
(c) a professional member if-
(i) he has been registered as a chemist and has been in practice as a
chemist for a period of at least two years immediately preceding the
application; and

-- 3 of 18 --

(ii) he is otherwise considered by the Council to be a fit person to be so
registered;
(d) an ordinary member if-
(i) he holds a certificate of the examination of the Institute or has any
other qualification approved by the Council;
(ii) he satisfies the provisions of section 8 of this Act; and
(iii) he is otherwise considered by the Council to be a fit person to be so
registered.
(3) An honorary fellow or honorary member of the Institute shall be a person admit-
ted as such by a resolution of the Council.
(4) Where a person is enrolled or registered by the Institute, he shall be entitled to the
use of such letters after his name as may be authorised by the Council according to
whether he is a fellow, associate, professional member or registered chemist and when so
enrolled or registered, he shall receive a certificate in such form as the Council may, from
time to time, approve.
5. Fund of the Council
(1) The Council shall establish and maintain a fund for the Institute.
(2) There shall be paid and credited into the fund established pursuant to subsec-
tion (1) of this section-
(a) all fees and other moneys payable to the Council in pursuance of this Act;
(b) such moneys as may be provided by the Federal Government to the Council by
way of grant or by way of loan or otherwise; and
(c) such moneys as may be payable to the Council in the course of the discharge
of its functions under this Act.
(3) There shall be paid out of the fund of the Institute-
(a) all expenditure incurred by the Council in the discharge of its functions under
this Act;
(b) the remuneration and allowances of the Registrar and other staff of the Insti-
tute; and
(c) such reasonable travelling and subsistence allowances of members of the
Council in respect of the time spent on the duties of the Council, as the Coun-
cil may determine.
(4) The Council may invest moneys in the fund in any security created or issued by
or on behalf of the Government of the Federation or in any securities in Nigeria as may
be approved by the Council.
(5) The Council may, from time to time, borrow money for the purposes of the Insti-
tute and any interest payable on moneys so borrowed shall be paid out of the fund of
the institute.
(4) The Council may invest moneys in the fund in any security created or issued by
or on behalf of the Government of the Federation or in any other securities in Nigeria as
may be approved by the Council.

-- 4 of 18 --

(6) The Council shall keep proper accounts on behalf of the Institute in respect of
each year and proper records in relation to these accounts; and the Council shall cause the accounts to be
audited by an auditor appointed from the list and in accordance with the guidelines supplied by the Auditor-
General for the Federation.
(7) The auditor, appointed for the purposes of this section, shall not be a member of
the Council.
(8) The Council shall prepare and submit to the Minister not later than twelve months after its
establishment and once in each year thereafter a report on the activities of the Council in the last
preceding year and shall include in the report a copy of the audited accounts of the Council for that
year and of the auditor's report thereon.
6. Appointment of Registrar, etc., and preparation of the register
(1)
(a)
It shall be the duty of the Council to appoint-
a fit and proper person who shall be a member of the Institute to be the Registrar
for the purposes of this Act; and
such other persons as the Institute may, from time
to time, think necessary.
(b)
(2) It shall be the duty of the Registrar to prepare and maintain, in accordance with
rules made by the Council, a register of names, addresses and approved qualifications and of su
other particulars as may be specified in the rules, of all persons who are entitled in accordance w
the provisions of this Act to be registered as members of the profession in the category of fellows,
associates members, professional members, ordinary members, honorary fellows and members
who, in the manner prescribed by such rules, apply to be so registered.
(3) The register shall consist of five parts of which the first part shall be in respect of
honorary fellows and members, the second part shall be in respect of fellows, the third
part shall be in respect of associates members, the fourth part in respect of professional
members and the fifth part in respect of ordinary members.
(4) Subject to the following provisions of this section, the Council may make rules
with respect to the form and keeping of the register and the making of entries therein and
in particular-
(a) regulating the making of applications for registration, and providing for the
evidence to be produced in support of applications;
(b) providing for the notification to the Registrar, by the person to whom any reg-
istered particulars relate, of any change in those particulars;
(c) authorising a registered person to have any qualification which is in relation
to chemists, either an approved qualification for the purposes of this
Act,registered in relation to his name in addition to or, as he may elect, in
substitution for any other qualifications so registered;
(d) specifying the fees, including any annual subscription, to be paid to the Insti-
tute in respect of the entry of names on the register, and authorising the
Registrar to refuse to enter a name on the register until any fee specified for
the entry has been paid;

-- 5 of 18 --

(e) specifying anything falling to be specified under the foregoing provisions of
this section.
(5) Any rules made for the purposes of paragraph (d) of subsection (4) of this section
shall not come into force until they are confirmed at a special meeting of the Institute
convened for the purpose or at the next annual general meeting, as the case may be.
(6) It shall be the duty of the Registrar-
(a) to correct, in accordance with the directions of the Council, any entry in the
register which the Council directs him to correct as being in the opinion of the
Council an entry which was incorrectly made;
(b) to make, from time to time, any necessary alterations to the registered
particulars of registered persons;
(c) to record the names of members of the Institute who are in default for more
than six months in the payment of annual subscriptions, and to take such action
in relation thereto (including removal of the names of defaulters from the reg-
ister) as the Council may direct or require.
(7) If the Registrar-
(a) sends by post to any registered person a registered letter addressed to him at
his address on the register enquiring whether the registered particulars relating
to him are correct and receives no reply to the letter within the period of six
months from the date of posting it; and
(b) upon the expiration of that period sends in the like manner to the person in
question a second similar letter and receives no reply to that letter within three
months from the date of posting it,
the Registrar may remove the particulars relating to the person in question from the
register:
Provided that the Council may, for any reason which seems to it sufficient, direct
the Registrar to restore to the appropriate part of the register any particulars removed
therefrom under this subsection.
7. Publication of register and list of corrections
(1) It shall be the duty of the Registrar-
(a) to cause the register to be printed, published and put on sale to members of
the public not later than two years from the coming into force of this Act;
(b) in each year after that in which a register is first published under paragraph (a)
of this subsection, to cause to be printed, published and put on sale as afore-
said, either a corrected edition of the register or list of alterations made to the
register since it was last printed; and
(c) to cause a print of each edition of the register and of each list of corrections to
be deposited at the principal office of the Institute,
and it shall be the duty of the Council to keep the register and lists so deposited available
at all reasonable times for inspection by members of the public.

-- 6 of 18 --

(2) A document purporting to be a print of an edition of a register published under
this section by authority of the Registrar or documents purporting to be prints of an edition of a
register so published and of a list of corrections to that edition so published, shall (without
prejudice to any other mode of proot) be admissible in any proceeding as evidence that any
person specified in the document, or documents read together, as being registered, is so
registered at the date of the edition or of the list of corrections, as the case may be, and that any
person not so specified was not so registered.
(3) Where in accordance with subsection (2) of this section, a person is in any pro-
ceeding shown to have been or not to have been registered at a particular date, he shall,
unless the contrary is proved, be taken for the purposes of the proceeding as having at all
material times thereafter continued to be or not to be so registered.
8. Registration of members of the profession
(1) Subject to section 15 of this Act and to rules made under section 6 of this Act, a
person shall be entitled to be registered as a member of the profession if-
(a) he passes the qualifying examination for registration recognised or conducted
by the Council under this Act and completes the practical training prescribed;
or
(b) he holds a qualification granted and for the time being accepted by the Institute
and satisfies the Council that he has had sufficient practical experience as a
chemist; or
(c) he holds a qualification granted outside Nigeria and for the time being ac-
cepted by the Institute which entitles him to practise for all purposes as a
chemist in the country in which the qualification was granted,
and he qualifies for registration as a member in any of the categories specified in sec-
tion 4 of this Act.
(2) An applicant for registration under this Act shall, in addition to evidence of quali-
fication, satisfy the Council that-
(a) he is of good character;
(b) he has attained the age of 21 years; and
(c) he has not been convicted in Nigeria or elsewhere of an offence involving
fraud or dishonesty.
(3) The Council may, in its sole discretion, provisionally accept a qualification pro-
duced in respect of an application for registration under this section, or direct that the
application be renewed within such period as may be specified in the direction.

-- 7 of 18 --

(4) Any entry directed to be made in the register under subsection (3) of this section
shall show that the registration is provisional and no entry so made shall be converted to
full registration without the consent of the Council, signified in writing in that behalf.
(5) The Council shall, from time to time, publish in the Gazette particulars of qualifi-
cations for the time being acceptable for registration by the Institute.
9. Approval of qualifications, etc.
(1) The Council may approve any qualification for the purposes of this Act and may
for those purposes approve-
(a) any course of training at an approved institution which is intended for persons
who are seeking to become or are already chemists and which the Council con-
siders is designed to confer on persons completing it sufficient knowledge and
skill for practice as a chemist;
(b) any qualification which, as a result of examination taken in conjunction with
the course of training approved by the Council under this section, is granted to
candidates reaching a standard at the examination, indicating in the opinion of
the Council that the candidates have sufficient knowledge and skill for practice
as a chemist.
(2) The Council may, if it thinks fit, withdraw any approval given under this section
in respect of any course, qualification or institution but before withdrawing such an ap-
proval the Council shall-
(a) give notice that it proposes to do so to persons in Nigeria appearing to the
Council to be a person by whom the course is conducted or the qualification is
granted or the institution is controlled, as the case may be;
(b) afford each such person an opportunity of making to the Council representa-
tions with regard to the proposal; and
(c) take into consideration any representations made as respects the proposal in
pursuance of paragraph (b) of this subsection.
(3) As respects any period during which the approval of the Council under this sec-
tion for a course, qualification or institution is withdrawn, the course, qualification or insti-
tution shall not be treated as approved under this section; but the withdrawal of such an
approval shall not prejudice the registration or eligibility for registration of any person
who, by virtue of the approval, was registered or eligible for registration immediately
before the approval was withdrawn.
(4) The giving or withdrawal of an approval under this section shall have effect from
such date, either before or after the execution of the instrument signifying the giving or
withdrawal of the approval, as the Council may specify in the instrument and the Council
shall-
(a) as soon as may be, publish a copy of every such instrument in the Gazette; and
(b) not later than seven days before its publication, send a copy of the instrument
to the Minister of Health.

-- 8 of 18 --

10. Supervision of instruction, etc.
(1) The Council shall, subject to the provisions of section II of this Act, keep itself
informed of the nature of-
(a) the instruction given at approved institutions to persons attending approved
courses of training; and
(b) the examinations as a result of which approved qualifications are granted, and
for the purposes of performing that duty the Council may appoint, either from
among its own members or otherwise, persons to visit approved institutions or
to attend such examinations.
(2) It shall be the duty of the person appointed under subsection (1) of this section to
report to the Council on-
(a) the adequacy or otherwise of the instruction given to persons attending ap-
proved courses of training at institutions visited by him;
(b) the adequacy or otherwise of the examinations conducted at any institution
inspected by him; and
(c) any other matter relating to the institutions or examinations on which the Coun-
cil may, either generally or in a particular case, request him to report,
but the person shall not interfere with the giving of any instruction or the holding of any
examination.
(3) On receipt of a report made in pursuance of this section, the Council may, if it
thinks tit and shall, if so required by the Institute, send a copy of the report to the person
appearing to the Council to be in charge of the institution or responsible for the examina-
tions to which the report relates, requesting that person to make observations on the re-
port to the Council within such period as may be specified in the request, not being less
than one month beginning with the date of the request.
11. Establishment of Disciplinary Tribunal and Investigating Panel
(1) There shall be established a body to be known as the Chartered Chemists Disci-
plinary Tribunal (in this Act referred to as "the Tribunal"), which shall be charged with
the duty of considering and determining any case referred to it by the Panel established
under subsection (3) of this section, and any other case of which the Tribunal has cogni-
sance under the following provisions of this Act.
(2) The Tribunal shall consist of the President of the Council and six other members
of the Council appointed by the Council.
(3) There shall be a body, to be known as the Chartered Chemists Investigating Panel
(in this Act referred to as "the Panel") which shall be charged with the duty of-
(a) conducting a preliminary investigation into any case where it is alleged that a
member of the profession has misbehaved in his capacity as such a member or
should for any other reason be the subject of proceedings before the Tribunal;
(b) deciding whether the case should be referred to the Tribunal; and
(c) submitting a report on any action taken in the past to the Tribunal.

-- 9 of 18 --

(4) The Panel shall be appointed by the Council and shall consist of two members of
the Council and one member of the profession who is not a member of the Council.
(5) The provisions of the Second Schedule to this Act shall, so far as they are applic-
able to the Tribunal and Panel respectively, have effect with respect to those bodies.
[Second Schedule.]
(6) The Council may make rules not inconsistent with this Act as to acts which con-
stitute professional misconduct.
12. Penalties for unprofessional conduct
(1) Where-
(a) a person registered under this Act is adjudged by the Tribunal to be guilty of
infamous conduct in any professional respect; or
(b) a person registered under this Act is convicted, by any court in Nigeria or
elsewhere having power to award punishment for an offence (whether or not
such offence is punishable with imprisonment) which in the opinion of the
Tribunal is incompatible with the status of a member of the profession; or
(c) the Tribunal is satisfied that the name of any person has been fraudulently
registered,
the Tribunal may, if it thinks fit, give a direction reprimanding that person or ordering the
Registrar to strike his name off the relevant part of the register.
(2) The Tribunal may, if it thinks fit, defer its decision as to the giving of a direction
under subsection (1) of this section until a subsequent meeting of the Tribunal.
(3) No decision of the Tribunal shall be deferred under subsection (2) of this section
for periods exceeding one year in the aggregate.
(4) As far as possible no person shall be a member of the Tribunal for the purposes of
reaching a decision which has been deferred or further deferred, unless he was present
as a member of the Tribunal when the decision was deferred.
(5) For the purposes of subsection (1) of this section, a person shall not be treated as
convicted unless the conviction stands at a time when no appeal or further appeal is
pending or may (without extension of time) be brought in connection with the
conviction.
(6) When the Tribunal gives a direction under subsection (1) of this section, the Tri-
bunal shall cause notice of the direction to be served on the person to whom it relates.
(7) The person to whom such a direction relates may, at any time within 28 days
from the date of service on him of the direction, appeal against the direction to the Fed-
eral High Court and the Tribunal may appear as respondent to the appeal and, for the
purpose of enabling directions to be given as to the costs of the appeal and of proceedings
before the Tribunal, the Tribunal shall be deemed to be a party thereto whether or not it
appears on the hearing of the appeal.

-- 10 of 18 --

(8) A direction of the Tribunal given under subsection (1) of this section shall take
effect where-
(a) no appeal under this section is brought against the direction within the time
limited for such an appeal, or on the expiration of that time; or
(b) such an appeal is brought and is withdrawn or struck out for want of prosecu-
tion, on the withdrawal or striking out of the appeal;
(c) such an appeal is brought and is not withdrawn or struck out as aforesaid, if
and when the appeal is dismissed.
(9) A person whose name is removed from the register in pursuance of a direction of
the Tribunal under this section shall not be entitled to be registered again except in pursu-
ance of a direction in that behalf given by the Tribunal on the application of that person.
(10) A direction under this section for the removal of a person's name from the reg-
ister, may prohibit an application under subsection (9) of this section by that person until
the expiration of such period from the date of the direction (and where he has duly made
such an application, from the date of his last application) or as may be specified in the
direction.
13. Application of Act to unregistered persons
(1) Any person not being a member of the Chemical Society of Nigeria who, but for
this Act, would have been qualified to apply for and obtain membership of the Chemical
Society of Nigeria may, within a period of three months from the commencement of this
Act, apply for the membership of the Institute in such a manner as may be prescribed by
the Council.
(2) Where an application under subsection (1) of this section is approved by the
Council, the applicant shall be enrolled or registered, as the case may be, according to his
qualification.
14. When persons are deemed to practise as members of the profession
(1) Subject to section (2) of this section, a person shall be deemed to practise as a
chemist if, in consideration of remuneration to be received, and whether by himself or in
partnership with any person, he-
(a) engages himself in the practice of chemists or holds himself out to the public
as a chemist; or
(b) renders professional service or assistance in or about matters of principle or
detail relating to chemists;
(c) renders any other service which may by regulations made by the Council, with
the approval of the Minister of Health, be designated as service constituting
practice as a chemist.
(2) Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to apply to persons who, while in
the employment of any government or person, are required under the terms or in the
course of such employment, to perform the duties of a chemist.

-- 11 of 18 --

15. Rules as to articles, etc.
(1) The Council may make rules for-
(a) the training with registered members of the Institute of suitable persons as
chemists;
(b) the supervision and regulation of the engagement, training and transfer of such
person.
(2) The Council may also make rules-
(a) prescribing the amount and date for payment of the annual subscription and for
such purpose, different amounts may be prescribed by the rules for fellows, as-
sociate members, professional members, ordinary members, honorary fellows
and members of the Institute;
(b) prescribing the form of licence to practice to be issued annually or, if the
Council thinks fit, by endorsement on an existing licence;
(c) restricting the right to practise as a chemist if in default of payment of the
amount of the annual subscription where the default continues for longer than
such period as may be prescribed by the rules;
(d) restricting the right to practise as a chemist if the qualification granted outside
Nigeria does not entitle the holder to practise as a chemist; and
(e) prescribing the period of practical training in the office of a member of the
Institute in practice to be completed before a person qualifies for a license to
practise as a chemist.
(3) Rules when made shall, if the chairman of the Council so directs, be published in
the Gazette.
16. Provision of a library
The Institute shall-
(a) provide and maintain a library comprising books and publications for the pro-
motion and advancement of knowledge of the profession, and such other books
and publications as the Council may think necessary for the purpose;
(b) encourage research into chemical methods and allied subjects to the extent that
the Council may, from time to time, determine.
17. Powers of the Minister to give directives to the Council
The Minister may give to the Council directions of a general character or relating
generally to particular matters (but not to any individual person or case) with regard to
the exercise by the Council of its functions and it shall be the duty of the Council to com-
ply with the directives.
18. Regulations
(1) Any regulations made under this Act shall be published in the Gazette as soon as
may be after they are made, and the Minister shall as soon as may be after they are so
published lay a copy of any such regulation before the President of the Federal Republic
of Nigeria.

-- 12 of 18 --

(2) Rules made for the purposes of this Act shall be subject to confirmation by the In- stitute
at its next annual meeting or at any special meeting of the Institute convened for
the purpose, and if then annulled shall cease to have effect on the day after the date of
annulment, but without prejudice to anything done in pursuance or intended pursuance of
the rules.
19. Offences and penalties
(1) If any person for the purpose of procuring the registration of any name, qualifica-
tion or other matter-
(a) makes a statement which he believes to be false in a material particular; or
(b) recklessly makes a statement which is false in a material particular,
he is guilty of an offence.
(2) If, on or after the relevant date, any person who is not a member of the Institute
practises as a chemist for or in expectation of reward or takes or uses any name, title,
addition or description implying that he is in practice as a chemist, he is guilty of an of-
fence.
(3) In the case ofa person falling within section 13 of this Act-
(a) the provisions of subsection (2) of this section shall not apply in respect of
anything done by him during the period of three months mentioned in that sec-
tion; and
(b) if within that period he duly applies for membership of the Institute, then un-
less within that period he is notified that his application has not been approved,
the provisions of subsection (2) of this section shall not apply in respect of
anything done by him between the end of that period and the date on which he
is registered or is notified as aforesaid.
(4) If the Registrar or any other person employed by or on behalf of the Institute wil-
fully makes any falsification in any matter relating to the register, he is guilty of an of-
fence.
(5) A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable-
(a) on summary conviction, to a fine of an amount not exceeding N1,000; or
(b) on conviction on indictment, to a fine of an amount not exceeding N5,000 or
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
(6) Where an offence under this section which has been committed by a body corpo-
rate is proved to have been committed with the consent or connivance of or to be attribut-
able to any neglect on the part of any director, manager, secretary or other similar officer
of the body corporate or any person purporting to act in any such capacity, he, as well as
the body corporate, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly.

-- 13 of 18 --

20. Interpretation
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-
"Council" means the Council established as the governing body of the Institute under
section 2 of this Act;
''fees'' includes annual subscriptions;
"Institute" means the Institute of Chartered Chemists of Nigeria established under
section 1 of this Act;
"member" means a fellow, associate member, professional member, ordinary
member, honorary fellow or member of the Institute;
"Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibility for matters relating to
health;
"Panel" has the meaning assigned thereto by section 11 of this Act;
"President" and "Vice-President" mean respectively the office holders under those
names in the Institute;
"register" means the register maintained in pursuance of section 6 of this Act;
"Tribunal" has the meaning assigned thereto by section 11 of this Act.
21. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Institute of Chartered Chemists of Nigeria Act.