1. Establishment of the Institute

(1)  There shall be established an institute to be called and known as the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (in this Act referred to as "the Institute") to exercise the
functions and powers and pursue the objectives assigned to it by this Act.

(2) The Institute shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common
seal which shall be kept in the custody of the chairman of the board of trustees or of the
director if so authorised by the hoard.

2. Functions of the Institute

(1) The institute shall have the general responsibility for undertaking studies of and
research into tropical agriculture and of providing information thereon to authorised rep-
resentatives of governments or to groups or bodies of persons interested in tropical agri-
culture.

(2) In carrying out the general responsibility assigned to it by subsection (1) of this
section, the Institute may pursue all or any of the following objectives-

(a)              to provide in the tropics a high-quality international research organisation de-
voted to finding ways as quickly as possible to increase the output and improve
the quality of tropical food crops;

(b)              to provide, in co-operation with universities and research stations concerned
with tropical agriculture, high-level professional training for carefully selected
persons who expect to become staff members of institutions and organisations
in the tropics concerned with increasing food production and improving its
quality and distribution;

(c)              to publish and disseminate research findings and recommendations of the In-
stitute;

(d)              to distribute improved plant materials to other research centres where they
might be of significant value in breeding or improvement programmes;

(e)              to establish, maintain, and operate an information centre and library which will
provide for interested scientists and scholars everywhere a collection of the
world's literature on tropical agriculture; and

(f)               to organise or hold periodic conferences, forums, and seminars, whether inter-
national, regional, local, or otherwise, for the purpose of discussing current
problems in the field of tropical agriculture.

3.  Incidental powers of the Institute

The Institute shall have the following incidental powers, that is to say, it may-

(a)       obtain from any authority or person, charters and concessions necessary for the

attainment of its purposes;

[1974 No. 27.]

(b)       acquire from any person, by way of gift, purchase, exchange or lease whether

absolutely or in trust, any property, real or personal, requisite or necessary to carry out the

objects of the Institute, with power, subject to any trust, to hold or dispose of any such

property;

(c)       borrow money, make loans and guarantee loans made by others with the approval of the

board without prejudice to any other provision of this Act relating to the provision of funds;

(d)     do and perform anything necessary in the opinion of the Institute, to further the purpose

and attain the objects of the Institute.

4.
The board of trustees

(1) The affairs of the Institute shall be administered by a board of trustees (in this Act
referred to as "the board") composed of not less than nine and not more than seventeen
members made up as follows, that is to say-

(a)             the Permanent Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural De-
velopment or his representative;

[1990 No. 45.]

(b)             one member appointed by the President by rotation from amongst the Vice-
Chancellors of Nigerian universities having colleges or departments of agri-
culture;

(c)              three members who shall be appointed by the Consultative Group on Interna-
tional Agricultural Research;

(d)            the director for the time being of the Institute;

(e)            the director of Agricultural Sciences, Federal Ministry of Science and Tech-
nology or his representative; and

(f)              additional members, that is to say members chosen from among the following
categories, namely tropical African areas (other than Nigeria), South and
South-East Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean and from among eminent
specialists in tropical agriculture, the members not exceeding nine in number,
being elected from time to time by the board, with the approval of the Gov-
ernment of Nigeria.

(2) Members (other than those serving ex-officio) shall hold office for a term of two
years and shall be eligible for re-election for one further term of the like duration; but a
member appointed by the President shall not be eligible for re-appointment until three
years after the expiration of his term.

5.    Meetings and procedure of the board

(1) The board shall meet at least once in each year and at such other times as may be
required for any reason.

(2) Subject to the provisions of section 27 of the Interpretation Act (which provides
for decisions of a statutory body to be taken by a majority of its members and for the
chairman to have a second or casting vote), the board may determine its own procedure
or that of any committee thereof.

[Cap. I23.]

(3) The quorum at a meeting of the board shall be five and the quorum at a meeting
of any committee of the board shall be fixed by the board.

6.      Financing of the Institute

(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, the Ford and Rockefeller Foundations
have agreed to finance the Institute in accordance with the provisions as to financing set
out in the proposal in the Schedule to this Act.

[Schedule.]

(2) However, the Foundations shall at any time during the period covered by the
Schedule stated in the Act be empowered to review and revive their intended continuing
support; and the Foundations may in their discretion extend financial support of core op-
erations, in whole or in part, for a period to be agreed with the Government, or impose
conditions during this same period so as to diminish or curtail financial support as the
Foundations think fit.

7.    Power to lend money to employees of the Institute

The Institute may make loans to any of its employees or guarantee any loan made to
any such employee by any person&minus;

(a)       to purchase a motor vehicle required by the employee for the performance of

his duty; or

(b)       to buiId a house for the residential use of the employee or of his rami I y, to purchase a

plot of land on which a house for the employee may be built or to purchase a house for

the residential use of the employee or of his family.

8.    Location of principal office

The principal office of the Institute shall be established and maintained in Ibadan.

9.   Provision of land

(1) The Government shall make available on leasehold tenure to the Institute, in ac-
cordance with the land requirement provisions of the proposal, a suitable site for the lo-
cation of the Institute adjacent to the University of Ibadan and such other areas of land as
the Government and the Institute may, from time to time, agree to be necessary or desir-
able for experimental work, field tests, demonstrations and conduct of the Institute's busi-
ness in parts of Nigeria other than where the principal office of the Institute is located.

[1974 No. 27.]

(2) Land so made available by the Government shall be held upon such term or terms
as may be agreed and upon payment of, in each case, one peppercorn as annual rental (if
demanded).

10.   Annual report

The board shall furnish to the President as soon as may be after the end of each year a
report on the activities of the Institute during that year with sufficient copies for distribu-
tion to interested persons.

11. Exemption from duties of customs

(1) All equipment and supplies required for the establishment and operation of the
programmes of the institute, including construction materials and supplies, machinery,

and furnishings owned and imported by the Institute for the purposes of this Act shall be
exempted from duties of customs.

(2) Any other things owned and imported by the Institute shall likewise be so exempted:

Provided that the Government may require the Institute to give to it some indication of the nature and quality of any such thing so imported.

(3) The staff of the Institute shall be entitled to first arrival privileges only.

12. Exemption from income tax

(1) It is hereby declared that the Institute is an organisation between which and the
Government there exists an arrangement for technical assistance, and-

(a)     the income of the Institute; and

(b)     the income of any person other than a citizen of Nigeria who is employed in or is engaged by the Institute in a professional capacity,

shall, in so far as and to the extent only that it is derived solely by reason of operations of the Institute in Nigeria, be exempted from liability to income tax.

(2) Income&minus;

(a)     of persons on in-service training, fellowship, grants or scholarship; and

(b)     derived by non-Nigerians from other sources outside Nigeria,

shall likewise be exempted from income tax.

13. Entry into Nigeria of professional and other personnel

Where any person (other than a Nigerian) seeking entry into Nigeria satisfies the im-
migration authorities that he is to be employed by the Institute or is engaged by it in a
professional capacity as adviser, he shall, for the purposes of the Immigration Act, be
deemed to have accepted employment with the Government; and the provisions of section 8 of that Act shall be so construed and production of a consent to enter shall be unnecessary.

[Cap.I1.]

14. Requirements for change in basic organisation of the Institute

No change shall be made in the basic organisation of the Institute save after consulta-
tion with the Government and with the prior approval of the Foundations so long as the
Foundations continue to provide wholly or to a major extent the funds required to finance
the core operations of the Institute.

15. Disposal of plant, etc., on determination of the Institute

If the Foundations discontinue financial support for the Institute and the existence
of the Institute is thereafter terminated for any reason, all of the physical plant and
equipment of the Institute shall become the property of the Government to be used by it
for scientific or educational purposes.

16. Interpretation

In this Act unless the context otherwise requires-

"charters and concessions" include franchises, licences, rights and privileges with or
without financial or other assistance;

"core operations" means the functions referred to in section 2 (2) of this Act and in-
cludes the cost of maintaining and operating the Institute;

"Foundations" means the Ford and Rockefeller Foundations;

"the Government" means the Federal Government of Nigeria;

"the proposal" means the Proposal for an International Institute of Tropical Agri-
culture located in Nigeria referred to in the Schedule to this Act and references to sundry
provisions of the proposal shall be construed accordingly.

[Schedule.]

17. Short titIe

This Act may be cited as the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture Act.