1. Establishment of the Securities and Exchange Commission
(1) There is hereby established a body to be known as the Securities and Exchange

-- 8 of 135 --

Commission (in this Act referred to as "the Commission").
(2) The Commission−
(a) 	shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal;
(b) 	may sue and be sued in its corporate name; and
(c) 	may acquire, hold or dispose of any property, movable or immovable, for the
purpose of carrying out any of its functions under this Act.
(3) The headquarters of the Commission shall be situated in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, and
the Commission may, with the approval of the Minister, establish zonal
offices of the Commission in any State of the Federation.
2. Composition of the Commission
(1) 	The Commission shall consist of‐
(a) 	a chairman;
(b) 	one person not below the rank of Director to represent the Ministry;
(c) 	one person not below the rank of Director to represent the Central Bank of Nigeria;
(d) 	two full‐time Commissioners who shall be persons with ability, experience and
specialised knowledge in capital market matters;
(e) 	the Director‐General of the Commission; and
(f) 	five other Commissioners who shall be persons with proven ability and expertise in
corporate matters generally.
(2) The chairman and the Commissioners referred to in paragraphs (d) and (e) of
subsection (1) shall be appointed by the President on the recommendation of the Minister.
(3) The members of the Commission, other than the Director‐General and the two 	full‐
time Commissioners, shall be part‐time members of the Commission.
(4) The supplementary provisions set out in the First Schedule to this Act shall have ef‐
fect with respect to the proceedings of the Commission and the other matters contained
therein.
[First Schedule.]
3. Tenure of office of full‐time Commissioners
(1) The two full‐time Commissioners shall hold office in the first instance for a term of
four years and may be re‐appointed for a further term of four years and no more.
(2) The part‐time Commissioners (other than the ex‐officio Commissioners) shall each
hold office for a term of three to five years and no more.
4. Cessation of membership
(1) A Commissioner shall cease to hold office if‐
(a) 	he becomes of unsound mind; or
(b) 	he becomes bankrupt or he makes a compromise with his creditors; or
(c) 	he is convicted of a felony or any offence involving dishonesty; or

-- 9 of 135 --

(d) 	he is guilty of serious misconduct in relation to his duties; or
(e) 	in the case of a person who has a professional qualification, he is disqualified or
suspended (other than at his own request) from practising his profession in any
part of Nigeria by the order of any competent authority made in respect of him
personally.
5. Remuneration and allowance
Members of the Commission appointed under subsection (1) (a) and (e) of section 2 of
this Act shall be paid such remuneration and allowances as the President may, after consultation with
the Minister, from time to time, direct.
6. Disclosure of interest
(1) A member of the Commission who is directly or indirectly interested in‐
(a) 	the affairs of any company or enterprise, being deliberated upon by the Commission; or
(b) 	any contract made or proposed to be made by the Commission, shall, as soon as
possible after the relevant facts have come to his knowledge, disclose the nature
of his interest to the Commission at a meeting of the Commission.
(2) A disclosure made under subsection (1) of this section shall be recorded in the
minutes of the Commission and the member shall‐
(a) 	not, after the disclosure, take part in any deliberation or decision of the Commis‐
sion with regard to the subject matter in respect of which his interest is so disclosed;
(b) 	be excluded for the purpose of constituting a quorum of the Commission for any
deliberation or decision on the subject matter.
7. Code of ethics
The members of the Commission shall subscribe to and be bound by a code of ethics to
be approved by the Minister for the Commission.
PART II
Functions and powers of the Commission
8. Functions and powers of the Commission
The Commission shall‐
(a) 	regulate investments and securities business in Nigeria as defined in this Act;
(b) 	register and regulate Securities Exchanges, Capital Trade Points, futures, options
and derivatives exchanges, commodity exchanges and any other recognised investment
exchanges;
(c) 	register securities to be offered for subscription or sale to the public;

-- 10 of 135 --

(d) 	render assistance in all aspects including funding as may be deemed necessary to
promoters and investors wishing to establish Securities Exchanges and Capital Trade Points;
(e) 	prepare adequate guidelines and organise training programmes and disseminate
information necessary for the establishment of Securities Exchanges and Capital
Trade Points;
(f) 	register and regulate corporate and individual capital market operators as defined
in section 30 of this Act;
(g) 	register and regulate the workings of venture capital funds and collective investments
schemes including mutual funds;
(h) 	facilitate the establishment of a nation‐wide system for securities trading in the
Nigerian capital market in order to protect investors and maintain fair and orderly
markets;
(i) 	facilitate the linking of all markets in securities through modern communication
and data processing facilities in order to foster efficiency, enhance competition,
and increase the information available to brokers, dealers and investors;
(j) 	act in the public interest having regard to the protection of investors and the
maintenance of fair and orderly markets and to this end to establish a nation‐wide
trust scheme to compensate investors whose losses are not covered under the in‐
vestors protection funds administered by Securities Exchanges and Capital Trade
Points;
(k) 	keep and maintain separate registers of foreign direct investments and foreign
portfolio investments;
(l) 	register and regulate central depository companies and clearing and settlement
companies, custodians of securities, credit rating agencies and such other agencies
and intermediaries;
(m) 	protect the integrity of the securities market against abuses arising from the practice of
insider trading;
(n) 	act as a regulatory apex organisation for the Nigerian capital market including the
promotion and registration of self‐regulatory organisations and capital market
trade associations to which it may delegate its powers;
(o) 	review, approve and regulate mergers, acquisitions and all forms of business
combinations;
(P) 	promote investors' education and the training of all categories of intermediaries
in the securities industry;
(q) 	call for information from and undertake, inspect, conduct inquiries and audits of
the Securities Exchanges, unit trusts, mutual funds, Capital Trade Points, futures,
options and derivatives exchanges as well as other intermediaries and self‐
regulatory organisations in the securities industry;
(r) 	call for or furnish to any agency such information as may be considered necessary
by it for the efficient discharge of its functions;
(s) 	levy fees or other charges on any person for carrying out investment and securities

-- 11 of 135 --

business in Nigeria;
(t) 	conduct research into all or any aspect of the securities industry;
(u) 	prevent fraudulent and unfair trade practices relating to the securities industry;
(v) 	advise the Minister on all matters relating to the securities industry;
(w) 	disqualify unfit individuals from being employed anywhere in the securities industry;
(x) 	liaise effectively with the regulators and supervisors of other financial institutions
locally and overseas;
(y) 	perform such other functions and exercise such other powers not inconsistent with
this Act as are necessary or expedient for giving full effect to the provisions of this Act.
9. Powers to establish departments
The Commission shall establish specialised departments for the purpose of regulating‐
(a) 	Securities Exchanges, including Stock Exchanges, Capital Trade Points, futures,
options and commodities exchanges and such other securities organisations;
(b) 	capital market operators including corporate members, securities exchanges and
individuals, professionals firms, that is, accountants, solicitors, surveyors, engineers and
other professionals who undertake investment business either as investment advisers or
consultants;
(c) 	collective investments, including all collective investment schemes such as unit trusts,
"esusu" schemes, pension funds and such other schemes; and
(d) 	mergers, acquisitions, take‐overs and other forms of business combinations under this
Act.
PART III
Staff
10. Director‐General of the Commission
(1) There shall be, for the Commission, a Director‐General who shall‐
(a) 	be appointed by the President;
(b) 	hold office for a period of five years in the tirst instance and may be appointed for a
further period of five years and no more, on such terms and conditions as are contained in
his letter of appointment; and
(c) 	be the chief executive of the Commission.
(2) The Director‐General shall, subject to the general control of the Commission, be‐
(a) 	responsible for keeping proper records of the proceedings of the Commission; and
(b) 	the head of the secretariat and be responsible for‐
(i) the day‐to‐day administration; and
(ii) the direction and control of all other employees, of the Commission.
11. Secretary and other staff of the Commission, etc.

-- 12 of 135 --

(1) There shall be for the Commission a secretary and such other employees as the
Commission may deem necessary for the efficient performance of its functions under or
pursuant to this Act.
(2) The remuneration (including allowances) and terms and conditions of service of em‐
ployees of the Commission shall be as may be determined by the Commission.
(3) For the purposes of the application of the Pensions Act, any power exercisable under
the Act by the Minister or authority of the Federal Government (not being the power to make
regulations under section 23 thereof) is hereby vested in the Commission and not in any other
person or authority.
[Cap. P4.]
(4) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, the Pensions Act shall in its application by
virtue of subsection (3) of this section to any office, have effect as if the office were in the
civil service of the Federation within the meaning of the Constitution of the Federal Republic
of Nigeria.
[Cap. C23.]
12. Service in the Commission to be pensionable
(1) Service in the Commission shall be approved service for the purpose of the Pensions
Act, and accordingly, an officer and other persons employed in the Commission shall, in
respect of their service in the Commission, be entitled to pensions, gratuities and other
retirement benefits enjoyed by persons holding equivalent grades in the public service of the
Federation.
[Cap. P4.]
(2) Nothing in this section shall prevent the appointment of a person to any office on
terms which preclude the grant of a pension and gratuity in respect of that office.
PART IV
Financial provisions
13. Fund of the Commission
(1) The Commission shall establish and maintain a fund which shall be applied towards
the discharge of its functions under this Act.
(2) There shall be paid and credited to the fund established pursuant to subsection (1) of
this section, such sums as may be provided by the Federal Government for the Commission.
14. Powers to accept gifts
(1) The Commission may accept gifts of land, money or other testamentary dispositions,
endowments and contributions on such terms and conditions, if any, as may be specified by
the person or organisation making the gift.
(2) The Commission shall not accept any gift if the conditions attached by the person or
organisation making the gift are inconsistent with the functions of the Commission.

-- 13 of 135 --

15. Fees, etc., to be paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the Federation
(1) The Commission shall be entitled to charge, retain and utilise for its purposes, fees
collected for the services rendered by the Commission under this Act.
(2) All cash gifts and such other dispositions accruing to the Commission under subsection (1) of
section 14 of this Act shall be paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the
Federation quarterly in arrears on 15 April, July, October and January of each year.
16. Borrowing by the Commission
(1) The Commission may, with the consent or in accordance with any specific authority
given by the Minister, borrow by way of loan or overdraft such specified amount of money
as may be required by the Commission for meeting its obligations and discharging its
functions under this Act.
(2) The Commission may, subject to the provisions of this Act and the conditions of any
trust created in respect of any property, invest all or any of its funds.
(3) The Commission may invest any of its surplus funds in securities prescribed by the
Trustee Investments Act or in such other securities as may, from time to time, be approved
by the Minister.
[Cap. T22.]
(4) Subject to the provisions of the Land Use Act, and any special or general direction
which the Minister may give in that behalf, the Commission may acquire any land required
for its purpose under this Act.
[Cap. L5.]
17. Application of the funds of the Commission
The Commission may, from time to time, apply the proceeds of the Fund established in
pursuance of section 13 of this Act to−
(a) 	meet the cost of administration of the Commission;
(b) 	reimburse members of the Commission or any committee set up by the Commis‐
sion for expenses authorised or approved by the Commission in accordance with
such rates as may be approved in that behalf by the Minister;
(c) 	the payment of salaries, fees or other remuneration or allowances, pensions and
gratuities payable to the employees of the Commission;
(d) 	the maintenance of any property acquired by or vested in the Commission; and
(e) 	all or any of the functions of the Commission under this Act or any matter connected with
those functions.
18. Annual estimates, account and audit
(1) The Commission shall cause to be prepared not later than 30 September in each year
an estimate of the expenditure and income of the Commission during the next succeeding

-- 14 of 135 --

year and when prepared, they shall be submitted through the Minister to the President for
approval.
(2) The Commission shall cause to be kept, proper accounts of the Commission and
proper records in relation thereto and when certified by the Commission, the accounts shall
be audited by auditors appointed by the Commission from the list and in accordance with the
guidelines supplied by the Auditor‐General for the Federation.
19. Annual report
The Commission shall not later than three months before the end of each year, submit to
the Minister a report on the activities and the administration of the Commission during the
immediately preceding year and shall include in such reports, audited accounts ofthe Com‐
mission and the auditor's report on those accounts.
PART V
Registration of Securities Exchanges and Capital Trade Points
20. Registration of Securities Exchanges and Capital Trade Points
(1) No Securities Exchange or Capital Trade Point as defined in section 264 of this Act
shall commence operation unless it is registered with the Commission in accordance with the
provisions of this Act and the rules and regulations made thereunder.
(2) An application for registration as a Securities Exchange or Capital Trade Point shall
be made to the Commission in the prescribed form and in such manner as may be specified
by the Commission, from time to time.
21. Conditions of registration
(1) The Commission may register a body corporate as a Securities Exchange or Capital
Trade Point if it is satisfied that the rules of the body corporate make satisfactory provisions‐
(a) 	for the exclusion from its membership of persons who are not of good character
and who do not possess a high degree of business integrity;
(b) 	for the expulsion, suspension or discipline of members for conduct inconsistent
with just and equitable principles in the transaction of securities business or for
a contravention of or failure to comply with the rules of the Securities Exchange
or Capital Trade Point or the provisions of this Act;
(c) 	with respect to the conditions under which securities may be listed for trading on
that particular Securities Exchange or Capital Trade Point;
(d) 	with respect to the conditions governing dealings in securities by members;
(e) 	with respect to the class or classes of securities which may be dealt in by members;
(f) 	with respect to a fair representation of persons in the selection of members of the
Board of the Securities Exchange or Capital Trade Point and the administration
of its affairs and provide that one or more members of the Board shall be repre‐
sentative of listed companies and investors; and

-- 15 of 135 --

(g) 	generally, for carrying on of the business of the Securities Exchange or Capital
Trade Point in the interest of the public.
(2) The Commission in granting its approval under this section shall ensure that the in‐
terest of the public will be served by the granting of its approval.
(3) The Commission shall issue a certificate of registration to a body corporate registered
by it under this section.
22. Revocation of certificate of a Securities Exchange or Capital Trade Point
The Commission may, with the approval of the Minister, revoke the certificate of
registration granted under section 21 of this Act if‐
(a) 	the body corporate ceases to operate as a Securities Exchange or Capital Trade
Point within the meaning of this Act;
(b) 	the body corporate is undergoing a process of being wound up; or
(c) 	the body corporate is operating in a manner detrimental to the public interest.
23. Approval of amendments to listing rules
(1) Where an amendment is made, whether by way of rescission, amendment, alteration
or addition to the rules of a Securities Exchange or Capital Trade Point or the listing re‐
quirements of a Securities Exchange or Capital Trade Point, the Board of the Securities
Exchange or Capital Trade Point shall forward a written notice of the amendment to the
Commission for approval.
(2) The Commission shall give notice in writing to the Securities Exchange or Capital
Trade Point concerned as to whether or not the Commission approves the whole or any
specified part of the amendment in question, and until such notice is given, the amendment
shall be of no effect.
(3) Nothing in this section shall preclude the Commission, after consultation with the
Board of a Securities Exchange or Capital Trade Point, from amending the rules or the listing
requirements of the Securities Exchange or Capital Trade Point by a notice in writing
specifying the amendments and the dates those amendments shall come into force and have
effect, but the Commission may dispense with such consultation if it considers it necessary
to do so for the protection of investors.
(4) Any notice under this section may be served personally or by registered post.
24. Securities Exchange or Capital Point to give notice of disciplinary actions, etc.
Where a Securities Exchange or Capital Trade Point reprimands, tines, suspends, expels
or otherwise takes disciplinary action against a member of the Securities Exchange or Capital
Trade Point the Securities Exchange or Capital Trade Point shall, within seven days give to
the Commission, in writing, the particulars and name of the member, the nature of and reason
for the action taken, the amount of the tine, if any, and the period of the suspension, if any.
25. Disciplinary actions by a Securities Exchange, etc.
(1) The Commission may review any disciplinary action taken by a Securities Exchange
or Capital Trade Point under subsection (1) of this section and may affirm or set aside a

-- 16 of 135 --

Securities Exchange or Capital Trade Point decision after giving the member and the Securi‐
ties Exchange or Capital Trade Point an opportunity of being heard.
(2) Nothing in this section shall preclude the Commission in any case where a Securities
Exchange or Capital Trade Point fails to act against a member, from suspending, expelling
or otherwise causing disciplinary action to be taken against a member of the Securities
Exchange or Capital Trade Point provided that the Commission shall give the member and
the Securities Exchange or the Capital Trade Point an opportunity of being heard.
(3) Any person who is aggrieved by the decision of a Securities Exchange or Capital
Trade Point or the Commission under this section may, within one month after he is notified
of the decision, appeal to the Investment and Securities Tribunal established under sec‐
tion 224 of this Act.
26. Powers to issue directives to Securities Exchanges or Capital Trade Points
(1) The Commission may, where it is in the public interest, issue directives to a 	Securities
Exchange or Capital Trade Point‐
(a) 	with respect to trading on or through the facilities of that Securities Exchange or
Capital Trade Point pertaining to any security listed on that Securities Exchange
or Capital Trade Point; or
(b) 	with respect to the manner in which a Securities Exchange or Capital Trade Point
carries on its business including the manner of reporting off‐market purchases; or
(c) 	with respect to any other matter which the Commission considers necessary for
the effective administration of this Act, and the Securities Exchange or Capital
Trade Point shall comply with the directives.
(2) A Securities Exchange or Capital Trade Point which, without reasonable excuse, fails
or refuses to comply with a directive given under subsection (1) of this section commits an
offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of not less than N100,000 and a further fine of
N5,000 for every day during which the non‐compliance continues.
(3) A Securities Exchange or Capital Trade Point which feels aggrieved by any directive
of the Commission issued under subsection (1) of this section may appeal to the Investment
and Securities Tribunal established under this Act within thirty days of the date of the
Commission's directive.
(4) Where the Commission is satisfied that an executive officer of a Securities Exchange
or Capital Trade Point‐
(a) 	has wilfully contravened; or
(b) 	has without reasonable justification or excuse, failed to enforce compliance by a
member of the Securities Exchange or Capital Trade Point with the provisions of this Act or
any regulations made thereunder or the rules of the Securities Exchange or Capital Trade
Point,
the Commission may remove that executive officer.

-- 17 of 135 --

(5) The Commission may, in the public interest or for the protection of investors, and after giving the
executive officer an opportunity of being heard, direct the Securities Exchange or Capital Trade Point in
writing to remove the executive officer, and where the Securities Exchange or Capital Trade Point fails
to comply with the direction of the Commission under subsection (4) of this section, the Commission
may remove the executive officer from office.
27. Power of Commission to prohibit trading in particular securities
(1) Where the Commission thinks it is necessary for the protection of persons buying 	or
selling particular securities of or made available by a body corporate on a Securities
Exchange or Capital Trade Point it shall in particular in the public interest prohibit trading in
those securities and give notice in writing to the Securities Exchange or Capital Trade Point.
(2) If, after receiving the notice given under subsection (1) of this section, the Securities
Exchange or Capital Trade Point fails to take action to prevent trading in the securities to
which the notice relates and the Commission still thinks it is necessary to prohibit trading in
those securities the Commission may, by notice in writing to the Securities Exchange or
Capital Trade Point, prohibit trading in those securities during such period, not exceeding
fourteen days, as may be specified in the notice.
(3) Where the Commission gives notice to a Securities Exchange or Capital Trade Point
under subsection (2) of this section it shall‐
(a) 	at the same time, send a copy of the notice to the body corporate together with a
statement setting out the reasons for giving the notice; and
(b) 	as soon as practicable not later than thirty days after giving the notice, submit to
the Minister a written report setting out the reasons for the notice and shall send
a copy of the report to the Securities Exchange or Capital Trade Point, as the case
may be.
(4) A body corporate affected by a notice given to a Securities Exchange or Capital
Trade Point under subsection (2) of this section may request the Commission in writing to
refer the matter to the Investment and Securities Tribunal established under this Act for
determination.
(5) The Commission shall, on receiving a request under subsection (4) of this section,
forthwith refer the matter to the Investment and Securities Tribunal which may vary or
confirm the prohibition imposed by the Commission.
(6) A Securities Exchange or Capital Trade Point which permits trading in securities in
contravention of a notice under subsection (2) of this section commits an offence and is liable
on conviction to a fine of N50,000 and to a further fine of N5,000 for every day during
which the contravention continues.
28. Interpretation under this Part
In this Part of this Act‐
"Securities Exchange" includes a Stock Exchange or an approved securities organisa‐
tion such as commodity exchange, an over the counter market, metal exchange, petroleum

-- 18 of 135 --

exchange, options, futures and derivatives exchanges and such other forms of securities
organisations within the meaning of this Act;
"trading in securities" means trading in securities on the floor of a Securities Exchange
or Capital Trade Point.
PART VI
Registration of capital market operators
29. Registration of capital market operators
(1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2) of this section, no securities dealer, stock‐
broker, sub‐broker, jobber, share transfer agent, banker to an issue, market trustee of a trust
deed, registrar to an issue, merchant banker, issuing houses, underwriter, operators portfolio
manager, investment adviser and such other intermediaries associated with the securities
industry shall buy, sell or deal in securities except under and in accordance with the condi‐
tions of a certificate of registration obtained from the Commission in accordance with the