1. Vesting and validation of title to land
(I) The title to all that parcel ofland, buildings, monuments and structures situated in
Lagos State and known as the Lagos International Trade Fair Complex, more clearly de-
scribed in the First Schedule to this Act, is by virtue of this Act and without further assur-
ance, vested in the Federal Government of Nigeria.
[First Schedule.]
(2) The title to the land so vested by subsection (I) of this section is hereby validated.
2. Establishment of the Lagos International Trade Fair Complex Management
Board
(l) There is hereby established a body to be known as the Lagos International Trade
Fair Complex Management Board (in this Act referred to as "the Board") which shall
have the functions conferred on it pursuant to this Act.
(2) The Board shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common
seal and may sue or be sued in its corporate name.
3. Membership of the Board
(I) The Board shall consist of a chairman and representative each of the following,
that is-
(a) the Federal Ministry of Commerce;
(b) the Nigerian Institute of Estate Surveyors and Valuers;
(c) the Nigerian Export Promotion Council;
(d) the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Ag-
riculture;
(e) the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria; and
(j) the executive director of the Lagos International Trade Fair Complex.
[Issue I] L2 - 2

-- 2 of 12 --

CAP.L2
Lagos International Trade Fair Complex Management Board Act
(2) The chairman of the Board shall be appointed by the President, on the recom-
mendation of the Minister and shall be a person of proven integrity coupled with experi-
ence in matters relating to commerce and tourism.
(3) The provisions of the Second Schedule to this Act shall have effect with respect
to the proceedings of the Board and the matters contained therein.
[Second Schedule.]
4. Functions of the Board
The functions of the Board shall be-
(a) to manage, maintain and develop the Lagos International Trade Fair Complex
(in this Act referred to as "the Complex") as a national asset with commercial
orientations for purposes of greater proficiency;
(b) to develop additional infrastructures and facilities which would enhance the
economic, commercial and tourism potentials of the Complex;
(c) to liaise with the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry,
Mines and Agriculture and other organisers of trade fairs and exhibitions on
the organisation of and participation in trade fairs and other exhibitions;
(d) to provide adequate and standard facilities for the hosting of trade fairs and
exhibitions, seminars, conferences and meetings;
(e) to attract conferences, seminars and other socio-cultural and recreational ac-
tivities to the Complex;
if) to establish and manage a national permanent exhibition pavilion;
(g) to publish a national index on trade fairs and exhibitions;
(h) to establish and manage the International Shopping Complex set up within the
Complex;
(i) to carryon the business of real estate management within the Complex;
(j) to invest in bonds and securities; and
(k) to carry out such other activities which are necessary and expedient for the
discharge of all or any of the functions conferred on it pursuant to this Act.
5. Tenure of office of members of the Board
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a person appointed to be a member of the
Board, not being a public officer, shall hold office for a period of three years from the
date of this appointment and shall be eligible for re-appointment for a further term of
three years and no more.
(2) Any member, not being a public officer, may resign his appointment by a notice
in writing under his hand addressed to the Minister.
(3) Members of the Board shall be paid such remuneration and allowances as the
President may, from time to time, determine.
L2-3 [Issue I]

-- 3 of 12 --

CAP.L2
Lagos International Trade Fair Complex Management Board Act
6. Removal from office of members of the Board
(I) The Minister may, at any time, remove any member of the Board from office if
the Minister is of the opinion that it is not in the interest of the Board for the member to
continue in office and shall notify the member in writing to that office.
(2) Where the Board is satisfied that the continued presence on the Board of any
member is not in the national interest of the Board, the Board may recommend to the
Minister that the member concerned be removed from office.
7. Executive director of the Board
(I) There shall be appointed for the Board, by the President, on the recommendation
of the Minister, an executive director who shall have appropriate qualifications.
(2) The executive director shall be the chief executive of the Complex and shall be
responsible for the execution of the policy of the Board and the day-to-day administration
of the affairs of the Complex.
(3) The executive director shall hold office in the first instance for a period of four
years and shall be eligible for re-appointment for such further period of three years and
no more.
(4) Subject to this section, the executive director shall hold office on such terms as to
emolument and otherwise as may be specified in his letter of appointment.
8. Power to delegate to executive director
The Board may delegate to the executive director such of its functions under this Act
as may be necessary to enable him transact the day-to-day business of the Complex.
9. Staff of the Board
(I) Subject to this Act, the Board may appoint such other person as members of its
staff as it considers necessary.
(2) The remuneration and tenure of office of the other staff of the Board shall be de-
termined by the Board after consultation with the Federal Civil Service Commission.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (I) of this section, employees of the
Board may be appointed by way of transfer or secondment from any of the public serv-
ices in the Federation.
10. Application of pensions
(1) It is hereby declared that service in the Board shall be pensionable under the Pen-
sions Act and accordingly employees of the Board, shall, in respect of their service in the
Board, be entitled to pensions, gratuities and other retirement benefits as are prescribed
thereunder.
lCap. P4.)
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (I) of this section, nothing in this
Act shall prevent the appointment of a person to any office on terms which preclude the
grant of a gratuity in respect of that office.
[Issue I] L2-4

-- 4 of 12 --

CAP.L2
Lagos International Trade Fair Complex Management Board Act
(3) For the purpose of the application of the provisions of the Pensions Act, any
power exercisable thereunder by a Minister or other authority of the Government of the
Federation (not being the power to make regulations under section 23 thereot) is hereby
vested in and shall be exercisable by the Board and not by any other person or authority.
(4) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, the Pensions Act shall in its application
by virtue of subsection (3) of this section to any office, have effect as if the office were in
the civil service of the Federation within the meaning of the Constitution of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria 1999.
[Cap. C23.]
11. Fund of the Board
(l) The Board shall establish and maintain a fund from which shall be defrayed all
expenditure incurred by the Board.
(2) There shall be paid and credited to the fund established pursuant to subsection (I)
of this section-
(a) such moneys as may, from time to time, be lent or granted to the Board by the
Government of the Federation or of a State;
all moneys raised for the purposes of the Board by way of gift, loan, grants-in-
aid, testamentary disposition or otherwise;
all subscriptions, fees or charges for services rendered by the Board; and
all other assets that may, from time to time, accrue to the Board.
(b)
(c)
(d)
(3) The fund shall be managed in accordance with rules made by the Minister and
without prejudice to the generality of the power to make rules under this subsection, the
rules shall in particular contain provisions-
(a) specifying the manner in which the assets or the fund are to be held and regu-
lating the making of payments into and out of the fund;
requiring the keeping of proper accounts and records for the purpose of the
fund in such form as may be specified in the rules.
(b)
12. Expenditure of the Board
The Board may, from time to time, apply the proceeds of the fund established pursu-
ant to section II of this Act to-
(a) the cost of administration of the Board and the Complex;
(b) the payment of the salaries, fees and other remuneration, allowances, pensions
and gratuities payable to members or employees of the Complex, so however
that no payment of any kind under this paragraph shall be made to any person
who is in receipt of emoluments from the Government of the Federation or of a
State.
13. Powers of the Board to enter into contracts, to hold property and to invest
(I) The Board may enter into such contracts as may be necessary or expedient for
giving effect to the provisions of this Act.
L2-5 [Issue I]

-- 5 of 12 --

CAP.L2
Lagos International Trade Fair Complex Management Board Act
(2) Subject to the approval of the Ministry, the Board may acquire and hold such mov-
able or immovable property as may be necessary or expedient for giving effect to the
provisions of this Act and may, for the same purpose, sell, lease, mortgage, or otherwise
alienate or dispose of any property so acquired and held.
(3) The Board may invest its funds in such manner and to such extent as it thinks
necessary or expedient.
14. Power to borrow
(I) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, the Board may, for the purpose of giving
effect to this Act, borrow any sum of money from any source.
(2) Subject as herein provided, the Board may, from time to time, borrow by way of
overdraft or otherwise however such sums as it may require in the exercise of its func-
tions under this Act whereby the amount in the aggregate outstanding on any loan or on
all loans at any time is not more than NS,OOO,OOO so however that the Board shall not,
without the approval of the Minister, borrow sums of money where the amount in the
aggregate outstanding as aforesaid at any time exceeds N2,500,OOO.
15. Power to accept gifts
(I) The Board may accept gifts of land, money or other property upon such terms and
conditions, if any, as may be specified by the person making the gift.
(2) The Board shall not accept any gift if the conditions attached by the person mak-
ing the gift are inconsistent with the functions of the Board.
16. Power to make staff regulations
(I) The Board may, subject to the provisions of this Act, make staff regulations re-
lating generally to the conditions of service of its employees, or without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing, such regulations may provide for-
(a) the appointment, promotion and disciplinary control (including dismissal) of
the employees of the Board; and
(b) appeals by such employees against dismissal or other disciplinary measures,
and until such regulations are made, any instrument relating to the conditions of service
of public officers shan, with such modifications as may be necessary, be applicable to the
employees of the Board.
(2) Staff regulations made under subsection (I) of this section, shall not have effect
until approved by the Minister and when so approved they may not be published in the
Gazette but the Board shall cause them to be brought to the notice of all affected persons
in such manner as it may, from time to time, determine.
17. Annual estimates, accounts and audit
(I) The Board shall cause to be kept proper accounts and six months before the end
of each year, an estimate of the expenditure and income of the Complex during the next
succeeding year and when prepared they shall be submitted through the Minister for ap-
proval by the President.
[Issue I) L2-6

-- 6 of 12 --

CAP.L2
Lagos International Trade Fair Complex Management Board Act
(2) The Board shall cause to be kept proper accounts and proper records in relation
thereto and when certified by the Board such accounts shall be audited as provided in
subsection (3) of this section.
(3) The Board shall keep proper accounts in respect of each year (and proper records
in relation thereto) and shall cause its accounts to be audited within six months after the
end of each year by auditors appointed from the list and in accordance with the guidelines
supplied by the Auditor-General for the Federation.
18. Annual reports
The Board shall, not later than six months after the end of each year, submit through
the Minister to the President a report on the activities of the Complex and its administra-
tion during the immediately preceding year and shall include in such report the audited
accounts of the Complex and the auditor's comments thereon.
19. Indemnity of employees of the Board
(l) No suit shall be commenced against the Board before the expiration of a period of
one month after written notice of intention to commence the suit shall have been served
upon the Board by the intending plaintiff or his agent and the notice shall clearly and ex-
plicitly state-
(a) the cause of action;
(b) the particulars of claim; and
(c) the relief which he claims.
(2) The notice referred to in subsection (1) of this section and any summons, notice
or other documents required or authorised to be served upon the Board in connection with
any suit by or against the Board shall be served by delivering the same to the executive
director.
(3) In any action or suit against the Board, no execution or attachment or process in
the nature thereof shall issue against the Board but any sums of money which by judg-
ment of the court is awarded against the Board shall, subject to any direction given by the
Board, be paid from the funds of the Board.
(4) In any suit pending before a court, the Board may be represented at any stage of
the proceedings by any servant or agent of the Board who shall satisfy the court that he is
duly authorised in writing by the Board in that behalf.
(5) Every member, agent or staff for the time being of the Board shall be indemnified
out of the assets of the Board against any liability incurred by him in defending any pro-
ceedings, whether civil or criminal, in which judgment is given in his favour or in which
he is acquitted if any such proceeding is brought against him in his capacity as such
member, agent or staff as aforesaid.
20. Power of the Minister to give directives, etc.
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Minister may give directives to the
Board of a general character or relating to matters of policy with regard to the exercise by
the Board of its functions and it shall be the duty of the Board to give effect to any such
directives.
L2-7 [Issue 1]

-- 7 of 12 --

CAP. L2
Lagos International Trade Fair Complex Management Board Act
(2) The Board shall give the Minister such information and returns relating to any of
its activities, actual or proposed, as the Minister may, from time to time, require.
21. Interpretation
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-
"Board" means the Lagos International Trade Fair Complex Management Board es-
tablished by section I ofthis Act;
"chairman" means the chairman of the Board;
"Complex" means the Lagos International Trade Fair Complex;
"executive director" means the executive director of the Complex;
"member" means a member of the Board and includes the chairman;
"Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibility for commerce.
22. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Lagos International Trade Fair Complex Management
Board Act.