1. Establishment of Bar Council
(1) There shall be a body to be known as the General Council of the Bar (in this Act
referred to as "the Bar Council") which shall be charged with the general management of
the affairs of the Nigerian Bar Association (subject to any limitations for the time being
provided by the constitution of the Association) and with any functions conferred on the
Council by this Act or that constitution.
(2) The Bar Council shall consist of‐
(a) 	the Attorney‐General of the Federation, who shall be the president of the
Council;
(b) 	the Attorneys‐General of the States; and
(c) 	twenty members of the Association.
(3) The persons mentioned in paragraph (c) of subsection (2) of this section shall‐
(a) 	be elected to serve on the Bar Council at elections in which all members of the
Association are entitled to vote in such manner as may be provided by the con‐
stitution of the Association; and
(b) hold office for such period as may be determined by or under that constitution,
and not less than seven of those persons shall be legal practitioners of not less than ten
years' standing.
(4) The quorum of the Bar Council shall be eight, and the Council may make stand‐
ing orders regulating the procedure of the Council and, subject to the provisions of any such orders,
may regulate its own proceedings; and no proceedings of the Council shall
be invalidated by any vacancy in the membership of the Council, or by the fact that any
person took part in the proceedings who was not entitled to do so.
Practice as a legal practitioner
2. Entitlement to practise
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a person shall be entitled to practise as a bar‐
rister and solicitor if, and only if, his name is on the roll.
(2) If‐
(a) 	an application under this subsection is made to the Chief Justice by or on be‐
half of any person appearing to him to be entitled to practise as an advocate in
any country where the legal system is similar to that of Nigeria; and
(b) 	the Chief Justice is of the opinion that it is expedient to permit that person to
practise as a barrister for the purposes of proceedings described in the applica‐
tion,
the Chief Justice may by warrant under his hand authorise that person, on payment to the
Registrar of such fee not exceeding fifty naira as may be specified in the warrant, to
practise as a barrister for the purposes of those proceedings and of any appeal brought in
connection with those proceedings.
(3) A person for the time being exercising the functions of any of the following of‐
fices, that is to say‐
(a) 	the office of the Attorney‐General, Solicitor‐General or Director of Public
Prosecutions of the Federation or of a State;

-- 2 of 35 --

(b) 	such offices in the civil service of the Federation or of a State as the Attorney‐
General of the Federation or of the State, as the case may be, may by order
specify,
shall be entitled to practise as a barrister and solicitor for the purposes of that office.
(4) A certificate signed by, or by a person authorised either generally or specially in
that behalf, any of the persons mentioned in paragraph (a) of subsection (3) of this sec‐
tion stating that a particular individual is exercising the functions of a particular office
shall, without prejudice to any other means of proof, be conclusive proof for the purposes
of that subsection that the individual is exercising the functions of that office; and any
document purporting to be a certificate under this subsection shall be admitted in evi‐
dence and, until the contrary is proved, be deemed to be such a certificate.
3. Establishment of Body of Benchers
(1) There shall be a body of legal practitioners of the highest distinction in the legal
profession in Nigeria to be known as "the Body of Benchers" which shall be responsible
for the formal call to the Bar of persons seeking to become legal practitioners, and which
shall consist of the following members, that is‐
(a) 	the Chief Justice of Nigeria and all the Justices of the Supreme Court;
(b) 	the President of the Court of Appeal;
(c) 	the Attorney‐General of the Federation;
(d) 	the Presiding Justices of Court of Appeal Divisions;
(e) 	the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court;
(f) 	the Chief Judge of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja;
(g) 	the Chief Judges of the States of the Federation;
[1990 No. 2.]
(h) 	the Attorneys‐General of the States of the Federation;
[1990 No. 2.]
(i) 	the President of the Nigerian Bar Association;
[1990 No. 2.]
(j) 	the Chairman of the Council of Legal Education;
[1990 No. 2.]
(k) 	thirty legal practitioners nominated by the Nigerian Bar Association; and
[1990 No. 2.]
(l) 	such number of persons, not exceeding ten, who appear to the Body of Bench‐
ers to be eminent members of the legal profession in Nigeria of not less than
15 years' post‐call standing.
[1990 No. 2.]
(2) The Body of Benchers shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a
common seal.
(3) Except as provided under subsection (4) of this section or by regulations made
under subsection (5) of this section, a Bencher shall (unless he previously vacates it)
vacate his office as a Bencher if he ceases to be the holder of any office by virtue of which
he was appointed a Bencher.
(4) Notwithstanding anything in subsection (3) of this section, the Chief Justice of
Nigeria shall hold office as such Bencher for life.
(5) The Benchers may make regulations‐

-- 3 of 35 --

(a) 	providing for an increase in the membership of the Body of Benchers as set out
in subsection (1) of this section and the qualifications for and conditions applic‐
able to such membership;
(b) 	providing for the tenure of office of Benchers including the conferment of life
membership on any Bencher and the circumstances in which any Bencher may
become a supernumerary Bencher;
(c) 	providing for the appointment of persons of distinction in any country as hon‐
orary members of the Body of Benchers and the conditions applicable to such
appointment;
(d) 	providing for the composition and quorum of the Benchers for the purpose of
the exercise of any of the functions conferred on the Benchers under this Act
and for the determining in connection thereto of any matter which, in the
opinion of the Benchers, requires to be determined; and
(e) 	providing, either generally or in respect of any particular case, for the dis‐
charge of the functions conferred on the Benchers under this Act.
(6) Any Bencher may in such manner and subject to such procedure as may be pre~
scribed be removed from office for misconduct or on such other ground as the Benchers
may, in their discretion, determine to be sufficient.
(7) The Benchers shall meet at such times and places as may be convenient for them
and may, in such manner as they think fit, prescribe the procedure for their meetings.
(8) Except as may be provided by regulations made under subsection (5) of this sec‐
tion, the quorum of the Benchers shall be ten.
(9) The validity of any proceedings of the Benchers shall not be affected by any va‐
cancy in the membership of the Benchers or by any defect in the appointment of a mem‐
ber or by any irregularity in the proceedings of any of their meetings.
(10) For the purpose of this section‐
(a) 	"functions" includes powers and duties; and
(b) 	"prescribed" means prescribed by regulations made by the Body of Benchers,
and the operation of section 11 (2) of the Interpretation Act (which deals with references
in an enactment to acting appointments) is hereby excluded.
[Cap. 123.]
4. Call to the Bar
(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, a person shall be entitled to be called to
the Bar if‐
(a) 	he is a citizen of Nigeria; and
(b) 	he produces a qualifying certificate to the Benchers; and
(c) 	he satisfies the Benchers that he is of good character.
[1992 No. 9.]
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) of this section, a person may
also be entitled to be called to the Bar, if‐
(a) 	he is a non‐citizen of Nigeria;
(b) 	he produces a qualifying certificate to the Benchers; and
(c) 	he satisfies the Benchers that he is of good character.
[1992 No. 9.]

-- 4 of 35 --

(3) The Council of Legal Education may by regulations provide that the provisions of
paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of this section shall not apply in such cases and on such
conditions (if any) as may be specified by the regulations.
(4) The Benchers shall issue to every person called to the Bar pursuant to subsec‐
tions (1) and (2) of this section, a certificate of call to the Bar which shall be in such form
s the Benchers may determine.	a
5. Conferment, etc., of the rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria
(1) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, the Legal Practitioners' Privileges Com‐
mittee established under subsection (3) of this section may by instrument confer on a le‐
gal practitioner the rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria.
(2) A person shall not be conferred with the rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria un‐
less he has been qualified to practise as a legal practitioner in Nigeria for not less than ten
years and has achieved distinction in the legal profession in such manner as the Commit‐
tee may, from time to time, determine.
(3) There shall be a committee to be called the Legal Practitioners' Privileges Com‐
mittee which shall consist of the following‐
(a) 	the Chief Justice who shall be chairman;
(b) 	one Justice of the Supreme Court;
(c) 	the Attorney‐General of the Federation;
(d) 	the President of the Court of Appeal;
(e) 	five of the Chief Judges of the States;
(f) 	the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court; and
(g) 	five legal practitioners who are Senior Advocates of Nigeria.
(4) The members of the committee under paragraphs (c), (e), and (g) of subsec‐
tion (3) of this section shall be appointed by the Chief Justice of Nigeria in consultation
with the Attorney‐General of the Federation.
(5) Members of the committee under paragraphs (c), (e) and (g) of subsection (3) of
this section shall hold office for two years after which they shall be eligible for re‐
appointment for one further term of two years only.
(6) The Legal Practitioners' Privileges Committee may act notwithstanding any va‐
cancy in its membership.
(7) The Legal Practitioners' Privileges Committee may, with the approval of the
Body of Benchers, make rules as to the privileges to be accorded to Senior Advocates of
Nigeria, as to the functions of a legal practitioner, which are not to be performed by a
Senior Advocate of Nigeria, as to the mode of appearance before courts by a Senior Ad‐
vocate of Nigeria, and generally, but without prejudice to the foregoing, for ensuring the
dignity of the rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria.
(8) Until the first rules made in pursuance of subsection (7) of this section come into
force, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria shall not be entitled to engage in practice as a mem‐
ber of the legal profession otherwise than as a barrister, but nothing in this subsection
shall be construed as precluding a Senior Advocate of Nigeria from entering into, or con‐
tinuing in partnership with a legal practitioner who is not a Senior Advocate of Nigeria.