1. Establishment of the Librarians (Registration, etc.) Council of Nigeria

(1) There is hereby established a body to be known as the Librarians (Registration,
etc.) Council of Nigeria (in this Act referred to as "the Council").

(2) The Council shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common
seal and may sue and be sued in its corporate name.

2. Functions of the Council

The Council is hereby charged with the general duty of-

(a)              determining who are librarians for the purposes of this Act;

(b)              determining what standards of knowledge and skill are to be attained by per-
sons seeking to become registered as librarians (in this Act referred to as "the
profession") and reviewing those;

(c)             standards from time to time as circumstances may require;

(d)              securing in accordance with the provisions of this Act, the establishment and
maintenance of a register of persons entitled to practice the profession and the publication, from time to time, of the lists of such persons;

(e)              maintaining discipline within the profession in accordance with this Act; and

(f)               performing such other functions as may be conferred upon the Council by this Act.

3. Membership of the Council

(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Council shall consist of the following
members, that is-

(a)              five persons to be appointed by the Minister, one of whom shall be the director
of the National Library and the others from amongst other interests in the field
of librarianship which in his opinion ought to be represented;

(b)             five directors of State libraries to represent the State Library Boards on zonal
basis;

(c)              twelve persons elected by the Nigerian Library Association (in this Act re-
ferred to as "the Association") in the manner for the time being provided in its
constitution;

(d)              three persons to be appointed in rotation from such other association of librari-
ans as may be incorporated from time to time; and

(e)              four persons to represent the universities or other institutions offering courses
leading to an approved qualification in librarianship, no two of whom shall
come from the same university or institution.

(2) The members of the Council shall elect one of their number to be the chairman of
the Council.

(3) The provisions of the First Schedule to this Act shall have effect with respect to
the procedure of the Council and the other matters mentioned therein.

[First Schedule.]

4. Qualifications and tenure of office of members

(1) A person shall not be appointed a member of the Council unless he is a citizen of
Nigeria and is fully registered or qualified for registration as a librarian under this Act
and at the date of his appointment has been engaged in the practice of the profession for
not less than five years.

(2) The chairman shall hold office for a period of three years and shall be eligible for
re-appointment for one further period of three years and thereafter he shall no longer be
eligible for re-appointment.

(3) Subject to the following provisions of this section, a person who is a member of
the Council other than as an ex-officio member shall hold office for a period of three
years.

(4) The office of a member of the Council shall become vacant if .. -

(a)             he becomes bankrupt or makes arrangements with his creditors; or

(b)              he is as a result of physical or mental illness unable to discharge his functions
as a member of the Council; or

(c)              he is convicted of an offence involving dishonesty, fraud or moral turpitude.

(5) Any member of the Council holding office other than by virtue of section 3 (1) (c)
of this Act may, by notice addressed to the Minister, resign his office.

(6) A person who has ceased to be a member of the Council (except in the manner
provided in subsection (3) of this section) shall be eligible for re-appointment.

(7) Where a member of the Council ceases to hold office before the date when his
term of office would have expired by the affluxion of time, the body or person by whom
he was appointed or elected shall, as soon as may be, appoint, or as the case may be, elect
a person to fill the vacancy for the residue of the term aforesaid, so however that the
foregoing provisions of this subsection shall not apply where a person holding office as a

member of the Council has ceased to hold office at a time when the residue of his term
does not exceed one year.

5. Financial provisions

(1) The Council shall establish and maintain a fund from which shall be defrayed all
expenditure incurred by the Council.

(2) There shall be paid and credited to the fund established pursuant to subsection (I)
of this section-

(a)              such moneys as may be provided to the Council by way of grant or by way of
loan or otherwise howsoever; and

(b)             all other moneys that may accrue to the Council under this Act.

(3) The Council shall prepare and submit to the Minister not later than the 30th of
September in each year an estimate of its expenditure and income during the next suc-
ceeding year.

(4) The Council shall keep proper accounts in respect of each year and proper records
in relation to those accounts and shall cause the accounts to be audited as soon as may be
after the end of the year to which the accounts relate by auditors appointed from the list
and in accordance with the guidelines supplied by the Auditor-General for the Federation.

(5) The Council shall prepare and submit to the Minister not later than twelve months
after its establishment and once in each year thereafter, a report on the activities of the
Council during the last preceding year and shall include in the report a copy of the
audited accounts of the Council for that year and of the auditors report thereon.

(6) The Council shall not have power to borrow money or dispose of any property
except with the prior consent of the Minister and it shall not have power to pay remu-
nerations (including pensions), allowances or expenses to any member, employee of the
Council or to any other person except in accordance with the scales approved by the
Minister.

6.Power of Minister to give directives to the Council

The Minister may give to the Council directives of a general character or relating
generally to particular matters (but not to any individual person or case) with regard to
the exercise by the Council of its functions and it shall be the duty of the Council to com-
ply with the directives.

The register

7. Appointment of the registrar, preparation and maintenance of the
register

(1) It shall be the duty of the Council to appoint as the registrar for the purposes of
this Act, a fit and proper person having not less than ten years experience as a quali fied
librarian.

(2) The registrar shall also act as secretary to the Council.

(3) It shall be the duty of the registrar to prepare and maintain, in accordance with
rules made by the Council under this section, a register of librarians (in this Act referred
to as "the register").

(4) The register shall contain the names, addresses, approved qualifications and such
other particulars as may be specified by the Council, of all persons who are entitled in
accordance with the provisions of this Act to be registered as librarians and who apply in
the specified manner to be so registered.

(5) Subject to the following provisions of this section, the Council may make rules
with respect to the form and keeping of the register and the making of entries therein, and
in particular-

(a)             regulating the making of applications for registration and providing for the
evidence to be produced in support of applications;

(b)             providing for the notification to the registrar, by the person to whom any reg-
istered particulars relate, or any change in those particulars;

(c)              authorising a registered person to have any qualification which is registered in
relation to his name in addition to or, as he may elect, in substitution for any
other qualification so registered;

(d)             specifying the fees to be paid to the Council in respect of the entry of names in
the register and authorising the registrar to refuse to enter a name on the regis-
ter until any fee specified for the entry has been paid; and

(e)              specifying anything falling to be specified under the foregoing provisions of
this section.

(6) Any rules made for the purposes of paragraph (d) of subsection (5) of this section
shall not come into force until they are confirmed by the secretary.

(7) It shall be the duty of the registrar-

(a)              to correct, in accordance with the Council's directions, any entry in the register
which the Council directs him to correct as being in the Council's opinion an
entry which was incorrectly made;

(b)              to make, from time to time, any necessary alterations to the registered particu-
lars of registered persons; and

(c)              to remove from the relevant part of the register, the name of any registered
person who has died or, as the case may be, has ceased to be entitled to be
registered.

(8) If the registrar-

(a)              sends by post to any registered person, a registered letter addressed to him at
his address on the register enquiring whether the registered particulars relating
to him are correct and receives no reply to the letter within the period of six
months from the date of posting; and

(b)              upon the expiration of that period, sends in like manner to the person in ques-
tion a second similar letter and receives no reply to that letter within three
months from the date of posting it,

the registrar may remove the particulars relating to the person in question from the rele-
vant part of the register, provided that the Council may, for any reason which seems to it
to be sufficient, direct the registrar to restore to the appropriate part of the register any
particulars removed therefrom under this subsection.