2. Interpretation

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"bearer bond" means a bearer bond issued under the provisions of this Act;

"Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Nigeria;

"register" means the register of stock kept by the Central Bank;
[1976 No. 32. 1979 No. 63.]

"Minister" means the Minister for the time being charged with responsibility for
matters relating to finance;

"registered stock" or "stock" means Nigeria stock issued under the provisions of
this Act;

"security" means a bearer bond;

"stockholder" means a person holding registered stock who is entered as the owner
thereof in the register.

PART II

Power to raise loans

3. Issue of registered stock, promissory notes and bearer bonds for the purpose of
raising authorised loans

(1) Whenever by any Act, whether enacted before or after the date on which this Act
comes into operation, authority has been or is hereafter given to raise any sum of money
by way of loan for any purpose mentioned in that Act, or whenever it is necessary to raise

any sum of money for the purpose of repaying any loan raised by the Government under
this or any other Act the Minister may, from time to time, raise such sum or any part
thereof under the provisions of this Act in anyone or more of the following modes-

(a)           by the creation and issue of registered stock;

(b)          by the issue of securities in the form of Government promissory notes;

(c)           by the issue of securities in the form of bearer bonds.

(2) Each issue of registered stock or securities under this Act for the purpose of rais-
ing any specified sum of money shall be deemed to be stock or securities issued in re-
spect of a separate loan notwithstanding that the sum of money so raised is part only of a
sum of money authorised by any other Act to be raised by way of a loan.

4.Loans to be charged upon revenue

The principal moneys and interest represented or secured by any registered stock or
securities issued under this Act are hereby charged upon and shall be payable out of the
general revenue and assets of Nigeria.

5.Minister to direct mode of raising loans and other
particulars

(1) The Minister shall, in respect of each loan to be raised under this Act, specify by

directions published in the Federal Gazette-

(a)         the sum of money to be raised by that loan;

(b)         the mode or modes of raising the loan;

(c)         the rate of interest payable on the loan;

(d)             the dates in each year on which the half-yearly interest on the loan shall be
payable;

(e)              the rate of which a half-yearly appropriation out of the general revenue and
assets of Nigeria shall be made as a contribution to the sinking fund estab-
lished for the purpose of redeeming that loan and the date from which such
contributions shall commence;

(f)               the date of redemption of the registered stock or securities to be issued for the
purpose of raising that loan;

(g)              whether the interest payable on any registered stock, Government promissory
notes or bearer bonds issued under the authority of this Act shall be exempt
from all or any of the taxes and duties payable under any other enactment in
force in Nigeria.

(2) In the case of a loan appropriated and applied or to be appropriated and applied
for lending to the Government of a State such directions shall not require the Government
of the Federation to establish a sinking fund but shall specify-

[1959 No. 8.]

(a)             that the terms and conditions for such lending have been approved in accor-
dance with paragraph (b) of section 3 of the Loan (Internal Borrowing) Act;
and

[1958 No. 18.]

(b)             the rate at which a half-yearly appropriation out of the general revenue and
assets of each State concerned is required.

(3) The date of redemption of any registered stock or securities shall not be later than
sixty years from the date of issue of such stock or securities.

(4) Where the Minister deems it expedient to reserve an option to redeem any regis-
tered stock or securities at any date earlier than the date of redemption specified for such
stock or securities by the directions under subsection (1) of this section, he shall by such
directions further specify the terms and conditions on which such stock or securities may
be redeemed at any earlier date.

6. Central Bank to make necessary arrangements

Upon the publication under section 5 of this Act of the directions of the Minister in
respect of any loan to be raised under this Act, the Central Bank may, subject to the pro-
visions of such directions and to such further directions as the Minister may give in that
behalf, make all such arrangements as may be necessary to raise that loan upon the most
favourable terms that can be obtained.

[1976 No. 32.]

PART III

Registered stock

7. Register of stock

The Central Bank shall keep a register in respect of each issue of registered stock un-
der this Act in which all such stock and all transfers of and all dealings in such stock shall
be registered and in which shall be entered all matters and things which by this Act are
required to be entered in the register.

8. Liability of Government in respect of issue of registered
stock

The Government of Nigeria shall be bound to pay to the person registered for the time
being as the stockholder, the principal sum represented by that stock and the interest due
thereon, in accordance with the provisions of this Act, at the rate and on the dates di-
rected by the Minister under section 5 of this Act or in pursuance of an option to redeem
such stock reserved in such directions.

9. Stockholder

For the purposes of this Act, no person shall be entitled to any registered stock unless
he is registered as a stockholder in respect thereof.

10. Registration of first stockholders

No person shall be registered as a first stockholder of any registered stock except
upon payment in full of the purchase price of that stock.

11. Stock certificates

Every stockholder shall be entitled to obtain from the Central Bank a stock certificate
and no stockholder, other than the first stockholder of any stock shall be entitled to obtain
a stock certificate save upon payment of the prescribed fee.

12. Transfer of registered stock

(1) For the purposes of this Act, the title of any stockholder to any registered stock
shall not be deemed to be transferred to any other person save upon the execution of an
approved instrument of transfer and upon the registration of the transferee as the stock
holder under section 13 of this Act.

(2) Interest which has fallen due in respect of any registered stock but which has not
been paid to the stockholder for the time being, shall not be deemed to be payable to a
transferee of that stock unless the instrument of transfer expressly provides for the pay-
ment of that interest to that transferee.

13. Registration of transfers of stock and liens on stock

(1) No person shall be registered as the transferee of any registered stock except upon
surrender to the Central Bank of the stock certificate and the instrument of transfer relat-
ing to that stock and upon payment of the prescribed fee.

(2) The Central Bank may register a lien on any registered stock in accordance with
such provisions as are prescribed by regulation and upon payment of the prescribed fee.

(3) With effect from the 1st day of May 1949, any such lien which is registered under
the Act shall have priority over any lien not so registered.

14. Closing of register

The register shall be closed for a period of 21 days immediately preceding each date
upon which interest on that stock falIs due and no transfer of that stock shall be registered
during that period.

15. Register to be conclusive evidence of facts entered therein

(1) The entries in the register kept under the provisions of this Act shall be conclu-
sive evidence of the facts, matters, particulars and transactions to which those entries
relate.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other enactment, a copy of any entry in the
register certified under the hand of the director of domestic operations of the Central
Bank to be a true copy of the original entry shall be receivable in evidence in any judicial
proceeding unless a judge shall otherwise direct.

[1976 No. 32. 1979 No. 63.]

PART IV

Bearer bonds

16. Bearer bonds

(1) Every bearer bond shall be signed by the director of domestic operations of the
Central Bank for and on behalf of the Government of Nigeria and shall, when issued,
bind the Government of Nigeria to pay the principal sum and the interest thereon in ac-
cordance with the provisions of this Act, at the rate and on the dates specified in the di-
rections by the Minister under section 5 of this Act or in pursuance of an option to re-
deem such bond reserved in such directions.

[1976 No. 32. 1979 No. 3.]

(2) Bearer bonds shall be issued in such denominations as the Minister may direct.

17. Interest coupons

(1) There shall be attached to every bearer bond coupons for the payment of interest
which falls due thereunder:

Provided that the number of coupons attached to a bearer bond on the date of its is-
sue to any person may cover a period shorter than that of the currency of the bond if, in
the opinion of the Central Bank, it is inconvenient or inexpedient to attach to the bond
coupons sufficient in number to cover the entirety of the period of the currency of the
bond.

(2) If the number of coupons attached to any bearer bond on the date of its issue to
any person is insufficient to cover all payments of interest due on the bond after that date,
the holder of that bond shall be entitled to a renewal thereof at the prescribed time and in
the prescribed manner and circumstances.

PART V

Payment of interest and redemption of stock and securities

18. Appropriation of revenue for payment of interest

So long as any interest is payable under this Act in respect of any stock or securities,
the Minister shall, in each half-year ending with the date on which the interest on such
stock or securities falls due, appropriate out of the general revenue and assets of Nigeria a
sum sufficient to meet all interest payable on that date and shall authorise the Central
Bank to pay such interest out of the sum so appropriated.

19. Payment of interest

(1) The interest due on any registered stock or securities shall be payable half-yearly
on the dates specified by the directions of the Minister under section 5 of this Act.

(2) Where any amount has become payable on any date as interest due on any regis-
tered stock or securities, no interest on that amount shall, after that date, be paid or pay-
able by the Government to any person in any circumstances.

20. Cessation of liability to pay interest

No person shall be entitled to claim interest on any registered stock or securities in re-
spect of any period which has elapsed after the earliest date on which demand could law-
fully have been made for the payment of the principal amount due on such stock or secu-
rities.

21. Payments

All payments of interest and all payments of the principal amount due on any regis-
tered stock or securities shall be made at the Central Bank in Lagos:

[1976 No. 32.]

Provided that the Central Bank or any person authorised by the Central Bank in
that behalf may pay any such interest or principal amount at any other place, whether
within or without Nigeria, in pursuance of any arrangement which the Central Bank may
make for that purpose.

PART VI

Sinking funds

22. Appropriation of revenue for sinking fund

After the date specified in the directions of the Minister under section 5 of this Act as
the date from which contributions to the sinking fund for any loan shall commence, the
Minister shall, in each half-year ending with the date specified in those directions for the
payment of the half-yearly interest on any stock or securities issued in respect of that
loan, appropriate out of the general revenue and assets of Nigeria a sum determined in
accordance with the rate specified in those directions as the contribution to the sinking
fund established for the purpose of redeeming that loan.

23. Separate sinking fund for
each loan

A separate sinking fund shall be established for each loan raised under this Act.

24. Investment of sinking fund

(1) All moneys appropriated under section 22 of this Act as contributions to the
sinking fund established for any loan shall be paid to the Central Bank and may then be
invested in such stock or securities or in such other investments or classes of investments
as may be approved by the Minister.

(2) The Central Bank may from time to time, with the approval of the Minister, vary
any investment made under subsection (1) of this section or may realise and reinvest any
moneys invested under that subsection.

(3) The dividends, interest, bonus and other profits of any investment of any part of
any sinking fund shall be invested by the Central Bank so as to form part of that sinking
funds in like manner as moneys appropriated under section 22 of this Act as contributions
to that sinking fund.

25. Cessation of contributions to sinking
fund

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Act, if at any time the
Central Bank is satisfied that the sinking fund of any loan raised under the provisions of
this Act will be sufficient with further accumulations of interest, but without further pay-
ments of contributions, to enable the loan to be redeemed at the time fixed for its re-
demption, it shall inform the Minister accordingly, and the Minister is hereby authorised
in such event to suspend further payments of half-yearly contributions to that sinking
fund:

[1976 No. 32.]

Provided, however, that the contributions to that sinking fund shall be recom-
menced if the Central Bank at any time thereafter informs the Minister that it is no longer
satisfied that the sinking fund with further accumulations of interest will be sufficient for
the redemption of that loan.

26. Expenses to be paid out of sinking fund

There shall be paid out of the sinking fund all expenses specifically incurred in, or in-
cidental to, the investment and management of that fund and the repayment of the loan
for which that fund was established.

27. Deficiency in sinking fund to be a charge upon
revenue

In the event of the sinking fund established for any loan under this Act being found, at
the time fixed for the repayment of that loan, to be insufficient for such redemption, the
deficiency shall be made good out of the general revenue and assets of Nigeria.

PART VII

Conversion of loans

28. Power of Minister to authorise conversion of loan generally

The Minister shall have and may from time to time exercise the following powers and
authorities or any of them-

(a)              he may declare any stock or securities issued in Nigeria under the provisions of
this or any other Act to be convertible into registered stock or other securities
to be issued under the provisions of this Act;

(b)              he may authorise the creation and issue under this Act of such an amount of
registered stock or securities as may be necessary for the conversion of the stock or securities in respect of which a declaration has been made under para-
graph (a) of this section;

(c)              he may authorise the creation and issue under this Act of such registered stock
or securities as may be necessary for the purpose of paying any expenses in-
curred in the creation and issue of registered stock or securities under this sec-
tion;

(d)             he may declare that all privileges, exemptions and imrnunities attaching
by virtue of any enactment in force in Nigeria to any stock or securities shall

attach to any new registered stock or securities issued under this Act in conver-
sion of such earlier stock or securities.

29. Arrangements for conversion

Any conversion authorised under section 28 of this Act may be effected either by ar-
rangement with the holders of existing stock or securities, or by purchase thereof out of
moneys raised by the sale of stock or securities, or partly in one way and partly in the
other.

PART VIII

Issue of duplicates and renewals of stock certificates and securities and
exchange and consolidation

30. Issue of duplicates and renewals

(1) The Central Bank may issue duplicate stock certi ficates and duplicate securities in
such circumstances as may be prescribed.

(2) The Central Bank may issue renewals of stock certificates and securities in such
circumstances as may be prescribed.

31. Right of Registrar to compel renewal of securities

The Central Bank may, in such circumstances as may be prescribed-

(a)             issue a notice to the holder of any security directing him to apply for a renewal
of that security; and

(b)             withhold payment of the interest or principal amount due in respect of that
security until the application for renewal has been made and determined.

32. Exchange of registered stock and securities

On application made by any person claiming to be the holder of any registered stock
or securities issued under this Act, the director of domestic operations of the Central
Bank may, if he is satisfied that the applicant is the lawful holder of such stock or securi-
ties, and on payment of the prescribed fee, exchange stock for securities or securities for
stock or securities of one kind for securities of the other kind:

Provided that-

(a)              all stock and securities so given or taken in exchange shall have been issued in
respect of the same loan;

(b)              the nominal value of the stock or securities given by the Registrar in exchange
shall be the same as the nominal value of the stock or securities taken by him
in exchange.

33. Consolidation and subdivision of stock and securities

Subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, the Central Bank may-

(a)              on the application of a person claiming to be entitled to any stock or securities; and

(b)             on being satisfied of the justice of the claim of such applicant; and

(c)               on surrender of the stock certificate relating to such stock or of such securities
receipted in the prescribed manner; and

(d)             on payment of the prescribed fee,

consolidate or subdivide such stock or securities and issue to the applicant one or more
new stock certificates or securities as may be required.

34. Indemnity
bonds

Where application is made to the Central Bank under this Act for the issue of a dupli-
cate stock certificate or a duplicate security or for the exchange, renewal, consolidation or
subdivision of any stock or securities, the Central Bank may require the applicant, as a con-
dition precedent to the grant of the application, to execute a bond with or without sureties
undertaking to indemnify the Government against the claims of all persons claim-
ing under the original stock certificate or security or under the stock or securities so ex-
changed, renewed, consolidated or subdivided, as the case may be.

35. Immediate discharge in certain cases

On payment by or on behalf of the Government to the holder of a bearer bond of the
amount expressed therein on or after the date when it becomes due or on the renewal of a
bearer bond under section 30 of this Act, or on the exchange of a bearer bond under sec-
tion 32 of this Act, or on the consolidation or subdivision of a bearer bond under sec-
tion 33 of this Act, the Government shall be discharged in the same way and to the same
extent as if such bearer bond were payable to bearer.

[1976 No. 32.]

36. Discharge in other cases

Save as otherwise provided in this Act the liability of the Government shall-

(a)              in respect of any registered stock or security redeemed on or after the date on
which payment of the principal amount becomes due, be discharged after the
lapse of six years from that date;

(b)              in respect of any security in place of which a duplicate is issued under section
30 of this Act, be discharged after the lapse of six years from the date of the is-
sue of such duplicate or from the date of the last payment of interest on such
security, whichever date is the later;

(c)              in respect of a security for which a renewed security is issued under section 30
of this Act, or in respect of stock or securities in place of which new stock or
securities are issued upon an exchange under section 32 of this Act, or upon a
consolidation or subdivision under section 33 of this Act, be discharged after
the lapse of six years from the date of the issue of the renewed security or of
the new stock or securities, as the case may be.

37. Summary procedure in special
cases

(1) If within six months of the death of a person who was entitled to registered stock,
the nominal or face value of which does not in the aggregate exceed five hundred naira,
probate of the will or letters of administration of the estate of such person is not produced

to the director of domestic operations of the Central Bank, he may, after such inquiry as
he may deem necessary, determine who is the person entitled to such stock or to admin-
ister the estate of the deceased and may-

[1976 No. 32.1979 No. 63.]

(a)              where any such stock relates to a loan due for repayment, authorise the regis-
tration of the name of such person in substitution for the name of the deceased
in the register of stock and the payment to such person of the amount due in
respect of that stock;

(b)              where any such stock relates to a loan not due for repayment, authorise the
registration of the name of such person in substitution for the name of the de-
ceased.

(2) Upon the payment or renewal of any promissory note in accordance with subsec-
tion (1) of this section, the Government shall be discharged from all liability in respect of
the note so paid or renewed; and any substitution of names made under that subsection
shall, for the purposes of any claim against the Government, be deemed to have effected
a valid transfer of the stock in respect of which it was made.

(3) Any creditor or claimant against the estate of the deceased may recover his debt
or claim out of money paid to any person under subsection (1) of this section and re-
maining in his hands unadministered in the same manner and to the same extent as if the
said person had obtained letters of administration of the estate of the deceased, and noth-
ing in this section shall affect any claim of an executor or administrator or other repre-
sentative of the deceased against such person other than a claim to recover amounts law-
fully paid by him in due course of administration of the estate of the deceased.

(4) The director of domestic operations of the Central Bank may, for the purposes of
an inquiry under this section, exercise all or any of the powers of a commissioner under
the Commissions of Inquiry Act as if he were a commissioner appointed thereunder by a
commission issued by the Minister.

[Cap. 36 of 1958 Edition.]

PART IX

Miscellaneous

38. Signature of director of operations of the Central Bank may be printed on
stock or securities

The signature of the director of domestic operations of the Central Bank may be
printed, stamped, engraved, or impressed by any mechanical process on any stock certifi-
cate, or bearer bond and a signature so printed, stamped, engraved or impressed shall be
as valid as if it had been inscribed in the proper handwriting of the chief accountant of the
Central Bank.

[1976 No. 32.1979 No. 63.]

39. Notice of trust not receivable save as provided

Save as otherwise provided in or under this Act, no notice of any trust in respect of
any registered stock or securities shall be receivable by the Central Bank or by the Gov-
ernment.

40. Exemption from stamp duties

All documents or instruments made or used under the provisions of this Act shall be
in such form as may be prescribed and shall be free from stamp duty, anything in any
other Act to the contrary notwithstanding.

41. Inspection of register and documents

(1) No person shall be entitled to inspect, or to receive information derived from, any
registered stock or security in the possession of the Government or any register, book or
other document kept or maintained by or on behalf of the Government in relation to reg-
istered stock or securities, save on payment of such fee and save in such circumstances
and on such terms and conditions as may be prescribed.

(2) Nothing in this section shall apply to the Auditor-General for the Federation or to
the Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax.

42. Power to make regulations

(1) The Minister may make regulations for the purpose of giving effect to the provi-
sions of this Act.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such
regulations may provide for all or any of the following matters-

(a)                    the manner in which payment of interest in respect of stock or securities is to
be made and acknowledged;

(b)                    the circumstances in which promissory notes must be renewed before further

payment of interest thereon may be claimed;

(c)                    the issue of duplicate stock certificate and duplicate securities;

(d)                    the renewal of stock certificates and securities;

(e)                    the manner of payment of interest to joint holders of stock or securities;

(f)                    the circumstances in which alterations may be made in the register;

(g)                    the payment of principal or interest and transfer of stock and securities in the
case of persons under a legal disability;

(h)                  the disposal of unclaimed interest;

(i)                    the conditions subject to which stock or securities may be exchanged, consoli-
dated or subdivided;

(j)              to enable holders of registered stock to be described in the register as trustees and either as trustees of any particular trust or as trustees without qualification
and for the recognition of powers of attorney granted by holders of stock so described;

(k)              the fees to be paid in respect of anything to be issued or done under the provi-
sions of this Act;

(l)               all matters required by this Act to be prescribed and all matters incidental to or
connected with the matters hereinbefore enumerated.

(3) Nothing in any regulation made hereunder shall, as between any trustees or as be-
tween any trustees and beneficiaries under a trust, be deemed to authorise the trustees to
act otherwise than in accordance with the rules of law applying to the trust and the terms
of the instrument constituting the trust; and neither the Government nor the Central Bank
nor any person holding or acquiring any interest in any registered stock shall by reason
only of any entry in the register of stock or of anything in any document or instrument
relating to registered stock, be affected with notice of any trust of the fiduciary character
of any stock holder or of any fiduciary obligation attaching to the holding of any regis-
tered stock.

43. Savings

Nothing contained in this Act shall affect the provisions of the General Loan and
Stock Act.

[Cap. G2.]

LOCAL LOANS (REGISTERED STOCK AND SECURITIES) ACT