1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Marriage Act.
2. Interpretation
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires‐
"district" means a marriage district constituted under this Act;
"Principal Registrar" means the Principal Registrar of Marriages;
"registrar" means a registrar of marriages, and includes a deputy registrar when act‐
ing as a registrar.
3. Marriage districts
The President shall, by order published in the Federal Gazette, divide Nigeria into districts,
for the purposes of this Act, and may, from time to time, by like order, alter the districts.
[L.N. 120 of 1957.]

-- 2 of 41 --

4. Appointment of registrars
(1) There may, from time to time, be appointed a fit and proper person to be the Principal
Registrar of Marriages.
[L.N. 112 of 1964.]
(2) There may likewise be appointed a fit and proper person to be the registrar of
marriages for each marriage district, and may also appoint a deputy registrar of marriages
for any district to act in the absence or during the illness or incapacity of the registrar.
5.Offices of registrars
Every registrar shall have an office at such place as the Minister shall direct. The of‐
fice of the Principal Registrar shall be at such place as the Minister shall direct.
[58 of 1933. 131 of 1954. L.N. 130 of 1957.]
6. Places of worship to be licensed for celebration of marriages
(1) The Minister may license any place of public worship to be a place for the cele‐
bration of marriages, and may at any time cancel such license; in either case he shall give
notice thereof in the Federal Gazette.
[L.N. 131 of 1954.]
(2) Every place of public worship licensed as a place for the celebration of marriages
under any enactment repealed by this Act shall be deemed to be licensed under this Act
unless and until the Minister shall cancel the license in respect thereof.
[L.N. 112 of 1964.]
Preliminaries to marriage
7. Notice of marriage
Whenever any persons desire to marry, one of the parties to the intended marriage
shall sign and give to the registrar of the district in which the marriage is intended to take
place a notice as in Form A in the First Schedule.
[First Schedule.]
8. Signature of notice by person unable to write or to understand English language
If the person giving such notice is unable to write or is insufficiently acquainted with
the English language, or both, then it shall be sufficient if he places his mark or cross
thereto in the presence of some literate person who shall attest the same as in Form B in
the First Schedule.
[First Schedule.]
9. Registrars to supply forms of notice
Every registrar shall supply forms of notice gratuitously to any person applying for
the same.
10. Notice to be entered in marriage notice book and published
Upon receipt of such notice the registrar shall cause the same to be entered in a book
to be called the marriage notice book, which may be inspected during office hours with‐
out fee. He shall also publish such notice by causing a copy of the same to be affixed on
the outer door of his office, and to be kept exposed there until he grants his certificate as
hereinafter mentioned, or until three months shall have elapsed.
11. Registrar to issue certificate on proof of conditions by affidavit
(1) The registrar, at any time after the expiration of twenty‐one days and before the
expiration of three months from the date of the notice, upon payment of the prescribed
fee, shall thereupon issue his certificate as in Form C in the First Schedule:
[First Schedule.]
Provided always that he shall not issue such certificate until he has been satisfied
by affidavit‐

-- 3 of 41 --

(a) 	that one of the parties has been resident within the district in
which the marriage is intended to be celebrated at least fifteen days
preceding the granting of the certificate;
(b) 	that each of the parties to the intended marriage (not being a widower or
widow) is twenty‐one years old, or that if he or she is under that age, the
consent hereinafter made requisite has been obtained in writing and is
annexed to such affidavit;
(c) 	that there is not any impediment of kindred or affinity, or any other lawful
hindrance to the marriage;
(d) 	that neither of the parties to the intended marriage is married by customary
law to any person other than the person with whom such marriage is
proposed to be contracted.
(2) Such affidavit may be sworn before a registrar, or before an administrative officer
or before a recognised minister of religion.
Explanations to be given
(3) The person taking such affidavit shall explain to the person making the same what
are the prohibited degrees of kindred and affinity, and the penalties which may be
incurred under sections 42 and 43 of this Act, and if he wilfully fails to make such expla‐
nation, he shall be liable to imprisonment for two years.
(4) The person taking such affidavit shall sign a declaration written thereon, that he
has given the explanation required by this section to the person making such affidavit and
that such person has appeared fully to understand the same.
12. Marriage to take place within three months after date of notice
If the marriage shall not take place within three months after the date of the notice, the
notice and all proceedings consequent thereupon shall be void; and fresh notice shall be
given before the parties can lawfully marry.
13. Minister may grant license to marry
The Minister upon proof being made to him by affidavit that there is no lawful im‐
pediment to the proposed marriage, and that the necessary consent, if any, to such mar‐
riage has been obtained, may, if he shall think fit, dispense with the giving of notice, and
with the issue of the certificate of the registrar, and may grant his license, which shall be
according to Form D in the First Schedule, authorising the celebration of a marriage be‐
tween the parties named in such license by a registrar, or by a recognised minister of
some religious denomination or body.
[1 of 1958. L.N. 1 of 1955. L.N. 112 of 1964. First Schedule. Form D.]
14. Caveat may be entered against issue of certificate
(1) Any person whose consent to a marriage is hereby required, or who may know of
any just cause why the marriage should not take place, may enter a caveat against the
issue of the registrar's certificate, by writing at any time before the issue thereof the word
"Forbidden", opposite to the entry of the notice in the marriage notice book, and append‐
ing thereto his name and place of abode, and the grounds upon which he claims to forbid
the issue of the certificate, and the registrar shall not issue his certificate until such caveat
shall be removed as hereinafter is provided.
(2) In the case of an illiterate person, such caveat shall be entered on his behalf in the
marriage notice book by the registrar on the verbal notice of such person.
15. When caveat entered question to be referred to court
Whenever a caveat is entered against the issue of a certificate, the registrar shall refer
the matter to a judge of the High Court of the State, and such judge shall thereupon sum‐
mon the parties to the intended marriage, and the person by whom the caveat is entered,

-- 4 of 41 --

to appear before him in the High Court of the State, and shall require the person by whom
the caveat is entered to show cause why the registrar should not issue his certificate, and
shall hear and determine the case in a summary way subject to a right of appeal to the
Court of Appeal.
16. Removal of caveat
If the judge decides that the certificate ought to be issued, he shall remove the caveat
by cancelling the word "Forbidden" in the marriage notice book, in ink, and by writing in
such marriage notice book, immediately below such entry and cancellation, the words
"Cancelled by order of the High Court" and signing his name thereto. The registrar shall
then issue his certificate and the marriage may proceed as if the caveat had not been en‐
tered, but the time that has elapsed between the entering and the removal of the caveat
shall not be computed in the period of three months specified in sections 11 and 12 of this
Act.
[58 of 1933. L.N. 47 of 1955.]
17. Compensation and costs
The judge may award compensation and costs to the party injured, if it appears that a
caveat was entered on insufficient grounds. [58 of 1933.]
Consent of marriage in certain cases necessary
18. Consent to marriage of minors
If either party to an intended marriage, not being a widower or widow, is under
twenty‐one years of age, the written consent of the father, or if he be dead or of unsound
mind or absent from Nigeria, of the mother, or if both be dead or of unsound mind or
absent from Nigeria, of the guardian of such party, must be produced annexed to such
affidavit as aforesaid before a license can be granted or a certificate issued.
19. Signature of consent by person unable to write or to understand English
language
(1) If the person required to sign such consent is unable to write, or is insufticiently
acquainted with the English language, or both, then he shall sign such consent by placing
his mark or cross thereto in the presence of one of the following persons‐
(a) 	any judge of the High Court of the State;
(b) 	administrative officer;
(c) 	justice of the peace;
(d) 	magistrate;
(e) 	registrar of marriages;
(f) 	medical officer in the service of the Government; or
(g) 	minister of religion.
(2) Such signature shall be attested by such person as in the Form B in the First