2. Jurisdiction in matrimonial causes
(1) Subject to this Act, a person may institute a matrimonial cause under this Act in
the High Court of any State of the Federation; and for that purpose the High Court of
each State of the Federation shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine‐‐
(a) 	matrimonial causes instituted under this Act; and
(b) 	matrimonial causes (not being matrimonial causes to which section 101 of this
Act applies) continued in accordance with the provisions of Part IX of this Act,
so however that jurisdiction under this Act in respect of matrimonial causes
within this paragraph shall be restricted to the court in which the matrimonial
cause was instituted,
and in any case where maintenance is ordered in proceedings in a High Court, a court of
summary jurisdiction in any State shall have jurisdiction to enforce payment in summary
manner.
(2) Proceedings for a decree‐‐

-- 5 of 226 --

(a) 	of dissolution of marriage; or
(b) 	of nullity of a voidable marriage; or
(c) 	of nullity of a void marriage; or
(d) 	of judicial separation; or
(e) 	ofrestitution of conjugal rights; or
(f) 	of jactitation of marriage,
may be instituted under this Act only by a person domiciled in Nigeria.
(3) For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared that a person domiciled in any
State of the Federation is domiciled in Nigeria for the purposes of this Act and may
institute proceedings under this Act in the High Court of any State whether or not he is
domiciled in that particular State.
3. Void marriages and prohibited degrees of consanguinity
(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, a marriage that takes place after the
commencement of this Act is void in any of the following cases but not otherwise, that is
to say, where‐
(a) 	either of the parties is, at the time of the marriage, lawfully married to some
other person;
(b) 	the parties are within the prohibited degrees of consanguinity or, subject to
section 4 of this Act, of affinity;
(c) 	the marriage is not a valid marriage under the law of the place where the mar‐
riage takes place, by reason of a failure to comply with the requirements of the
law of that place with respect to the form of solemnisation of marriages;
(d) 	the consent of either of the parties is not a real consent because‐‐
(i) 	it was obtained by duress or fraud; or
(ii) 	that party is mistaken as to identity of the other party, or as to the na‐
ture of the ceremony performed;
(iii) that party is mentally incapable of understanding the nature of the mar‐
riage contract;
(e) 	either of the parties is not of marriageable age.
(2) The prohibited degrees of consanguinity and affinity respectively on and after the
commencement of this Act shall be those set out in the First Schedule to this Act, and
none other.
[First Schedule.]
(3) A marriage solemnised before the commencement of this Act shall not be void‐
able on the grounds of consanguinity or affinity of the parties unless the parties were, at
the time of the marriage, within one of the degrees of consanguinity or affinity set out in
the First Schedule to this Act but nothing in this subsection shall make voidable a mar‐
riage that would not, apart from this provision, be voidable.
4. Marriage of persons within prohibited degrees of affinity
(1) Where two persons who are within the prohibited degrees of affinity wish to
marry each other, they may apply, in writing, to ajudge for permission to do so.
(2) If the judge is satisfied that the circumstances of the particular case are so excep‐
tional as to justify the granting of the permission sought he may, by order, permit the ap‐
plicants to marry one another.

-- 6 of 226 --

(3) Where persons marry in pursuance of permission granted under this section, the
validity of their marriage shall not be affected by the fact that they are within the prohib‐
ited degrees of affinity.
(4) The President may arrange with the Governor of a State for the performance by
judges of the High Court of that State of functions under this section.
(5) In this section, "judge" means a judge in respect of whom an arrangement made
under subsection (4) of this section is applicable.
(6) Rules made under section 112 of this Act may make provision for the practice
and procedure in and in connection with applications under this section, and may include
provision for or in relation to the summoning of witnesses, the production of documents,
the taking of evidence on oath or affirmation, and the payment of expenses of witnesses.
5. Voidable marriage
(1) Subject to this Act, a marriage that takes place after the commencement of this
Act not being a marriage that is void, shall be voidable in the following cases but not oth‐
erwise, that is to say, where at the time of marriage‐‐‐‐
(a) 	either party to the marriage is incapable of consummating the marriage;
(b) 	either party to the marriage is‐‐
(i) of unsound mind; or
(ii) a mental defective; or
(iii) subject to recurrent attacks of insanity or epilepsy;
(c) 	either party to the marriage is suffering from a venereal disease in a communic‐
able form; or
(d) 	the wife is pregnant by a person other than the husband.
(2) For the purposes of this section, "mental defective" means a person who, owing
to an arrested or incomplete development of mind, whether arising from inherent causes
or induced by disease or injury, requires oversight, care or control for his own protection
or for the protection of others and is, by reason of that fact, unfitted for the responsibili‐
ties of marriage.
6. Validity, etc., of certain marriages not affected
(1) Save as expressly provided in this Part of this Act, nothing in this Part shall affect
the validity or invalidity of a marriage that took place before the commencement of this
Act.
(2) A provision of this Act shall not affect the validity or invalidity of a marriage
where it would not be in accordance with the rules of private international law to apply
that provision in relation to that marriage.
7. Special provisions as to wife's domicile
For the purposes of this Act‐
(a) 	a deserted wife who was domiciled in Nigeria either immediately before her
marriage or immediately before the desertion shall be deemed to be domiciled
in Nigeria; and
(b) 	a wife who is resident in Nigeria at the date of instituting proceedings under
this Act and has been so resident for the period of three years immediately pre‐
ceding that date shall be deemed to be domiciled in Nigeria at that date.

-- 7 of 226 --

8. Law to be applied
The jurisdiction conferred on a court by this Act shall be exercised in accordance with
this Act, and any law in force immediately before the commencement of this Act which
confers jurisdiction in divorce or matrimonial causes on the High Court of a State or pro‐
vides for the law and practice to be applied in the exercise of that jurisdiction shall, to the
extent that it does so, cease to have effect.
9. Staying and transferring of proceedings
(1) Where it appears to a court in which a matrimonial cause has been instituted un‐
der this Act that a matrimonial cause between the parties to the marriage or purported
marriage has been instituted in another court having jurisdiction under this Act, the court
may in its discretion stay the matrimonial cause for such time as it thinks fit.
(2) Where it appears to a court in which matrimonial cause has been instituted under
this Act (including a matrimonial cause in relation to which subsection (1) of this section
applies) that it is in the interest of justice that the matrimonial cause be dealt with in an‐
other court having jurisdiction to hear and determine that cause, the court may transfer
the matrimonial cause to the other court.
(3) The court may exercise its powers under this section at any time and at any stage
either on application by any of the parties, or of its own motion.
(4) Where a matrimonial cause is transferred from a court in pursuance of this sec‐
tion‐‐
(a) 	all documents of record filed in that court shall be transmitted by the registrar
or other proper officer of that court to the registrar or other proper officer of
the court to which the cause is transferred; and
(b) 	the court to which the cause is transferred shall proceed as if the cause had
been originally instituted in that court, and as if the same proceedings had been
taken in that court from which the cause was transferred, but all subsequent
proceedings shall be in accordance with the practice and procedure of the court
to which the cause is transferred.
10. Courts to aid one another
All courts having jurisdiction under this Act shall severally act in aid of and be auxil‐
iary to one another in all matters under this Act.
PART II
Matrimonial relief
Reconciliation
11. Reconciliation
(1) It shall be the duty of the court in which a matrimonial cause has been instituted
to give consideration, from time to time, to the possibility of a reconciliation of the par‐
ties to the marriage (unless the proceedings are of such a nature that it would not be ap‐
propriate to do so), and if at any time it appears to the judge constituting the court, either
from the nature of the case, the evidence in the proceedings or the attitude of those par‐
ties, or of either of them, or of counsel, that there is a reasonable possibility of such a
reconciliation, the judge may do all or any of the following, that is to say, he may‐
(a) 	adjourn the proceedings to afford those parties an opportunity of becoming
reconciled or to enable anything to be done in accordance with either of the
next two succeeding paragraphs;
(b) 	with the consent of those parties, interview them in chambers, with or without
counsel, as the judge thinks proper, with a view to effecting a reconciliation;

-- 8 of 226 --

(c) 	nominate a person with experience or training in marriage conciliation, or in
special circumstances, some other suitable person, to endeavour with the con‐
sent of the parties, to effect a reconciliation.
(2) If, not less than fourteen days after an adjournment under subsection (1) of this
section has taken place, either of the parties to the marriage requests that the hearing be
proceeded with, the judge shall resume the hearing, or the proceedings may be dealt with
by another judge, as the case may require, as soon as practicable.
12. Hearing when reconciliation fails
Where a judge has acted as conciliator under section 11 (1) (b) of this Act but the at‐
tempt to effect a reconciliation has failed, the judge shall not, except at the request of the
parties to the proceedings, continue to hear the proceedings, or determine the proceed‐
ings; and, in the absence of such a request, the proceedings shall be dealt with by another
judge.
13. Statements, etc., made in course of attempt to effect reconciliation
Evidence of anything said or of any admission made in the course of an endeavour to
effect a reconciliation under this Part of this Act shall not be admissible in any court
(whether exercising federal jurisdiction or not) or in proceedings before a person author‐
ised by any enactment, federal or state, or by consent of parties, to hear, receive and ex‐
amine evidence.
14. Marriage conciliator to take oath of secrecy
A marriage conciliator shall, before entering upon the performance of his functions as
such a conciliator, make and subscribe, before a person authorised in Nigeria to take affi‐
davits, an oath or affirmation of secrecy in accordance with the form in the Second