1. Short title
These Regulations may be cited as the Merchant Shipping (Wrecks and Salvage)
Regulations.
2. Interpretation
In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires-
"investigation" means a formal investigation into a shipping casualty.
3. Notice of investigation
When an investigation has been ordered, the President may cause a notice, to be
called a notice of investigation, to be served upon the owner, master, and officers of the ship, as well
as upon any person who in his opinion ought to be served with such notice. The notice shall contain a
statement of the questions which on the information then in possession of the President, will be raised
on the hearing of the investigation, and shall be in the Form A in the Schedule with such variations as
circumstances may require. The Merchant Shipping Act
President may, at any time before the hearing of the investigation, by a subsequent notice,
amend, add to, or omit any of the questions specified in the notice of investigation.
[Schedule. Form A.]
4. Parties to the proceedings

-- 214 of 731 --

The Government Marine Officer, and any certificated officer upon whom a notice of
investigation has been served, shall be deemed to be parties to the proceedings.
5. Right to appear
Any other person upon whom a notice of investigation has been served, and any person
who shows that he has an interest in the investigation shall have a right to appear; any other
person may, by leave of the court, appear; and any person who appears under this rule shall
thereupon become a party to the proceedings.
6. Notice to produce
A party may give to any other party notice in writing to produce any documents
(saving all just exceptions) relating to the matters in difference between them, which are in
the possession or under the control of such other party; and, if the notice is not complied
with, secondary evidence of the contents of the documents may be given by the party who
gave the notice.
7. Notice to admit
A party may give to any other party notice in writing to admit any documents (saving
all just exceptions) and, in case of neglect or refusal to admit after such notice, the party
so neglecting or refusing shall be liable for all the costs of proving the documents, what-
ever may be the result, unless the court is of opinion that the refusal to admit was
reasonable; and no cost of proving any document shall be allowed unless such notice has
been given, except where the omission to give the notice has, in the opinion of the court,
caused a saving of expense.
8. Affidavits
Affidavits may, by permission of the court, be used as evidence at the hearing.
9. Procedure in court
At the time and place appointed for holding the investigation the court may proceed
with the investigation whether the parties, upon whom a notice of investigation has been
served, or any of them, are present or not.
10. Examination of witnesses
The proceedings on the investigation shall commence with the production and examination of
witnesses by the Government Marine Officer. These witnesses, after being examined on behalf of
the Government Marine Officer, may be cross-examined by the parties in such order as the court
may direct, and may then be re-examined on behalf of the Government Marine Officer. Questions
asked, and documents tendered as evidence in the course of the examination of these witnesses,
shall not be open to objection merely on the

-- 215 of 731 --

ground that they do or may raise questions which are not contained in, or which vary from,
the statement of the case, or questions specified in the notice of investigation.
[L.N. 67 of 1955.]
11. Questions in reference
When the examination of witnesses produced by the Government Marine Officer has
been concluded, the Government Marine Officer shall state in open court the questions in
reference to the casualty, and the conduct of the certificated officers, or other persons connected
therewith, upon which the opinion of the court is desired. In framing the questions for the
opinion of the court, the Government Marine Officer may make such modifications in, additions
to, or omissions from the questions in the notice of investigation as, having regard to the
evidence which has been given, he may think fit.
[L.N. 67 of 1955.]
12. Determination of question so stated
After the questions for the opinion of the court have been stated, the court shall proceed to
hear the parties to the investigation, and determine upon the questions so stated. Each party to
the investigation shall be entitled to address the court and produce witnesses, or recall any of the
witnesses who have already been examined for further examination, and generally adduce
evidence. The parties shall be heard and their witnesses examined, cross-examined and re-
examined in such order as the court shall direct; the Government Marine Officer may also
produce and examine further witnesses who may be cross-examined by the parties, and re-
examined by the Government Marine Officer.
13. Address
When the whole of the evidence in relation to the questions for the opinion of the
court has been concluded, any of the parties who desire so to do may address the court
upon the evidence, and the Government Marine Officer may address the court in reply
upon the whole case.
14. Adjournment of investigation
The court may adjourn the investigation from time to time and from place to place,
and where an adjournment is asked for by a party to the investigation or by the Govern-
ment Marine Officer the court may impose such terms as to the payment of costs or
otherwise as it may think just as a condition of granting the adjournment.
[L.N. 67 of 1955.]
15. Decision of the court
Except where the certificate of an officer is cancelled or suspended, in which case
the decision shall always be given in open court, the court may deliver its decision either
viva voce or in writing, and if in writing, it may be sent or delivered to the parties. In the
latter case it shall not be necessary to hold a court merely for the purpose of delivering
the decision of the court.

-- 216 of 731 --

16. Costs
The court may order the costs and expenses of the investigation, or any part thereof,
to be paid by the Government Marine Officer or by any other party. An order for pay-
ment of costs shall be in the Form B in the Schedule, with such variations as circum-
stances may require.
[Schedule.]
17. Report
At the conclusion of the investigation the court shall report to the President. The re-
port, which shall be in duplicate, shalI be in the Form C in the Schedule, with such modi-
fications as circumstances may require. The said report shall be published in the Federal
Gazette.
[Schedule.]
18. Copy of the report
Where the certificate of a master, mate, or engineer has been cancelled or suspended,
the Government Marine Officer shall, on application by any party to the proceedings,
give him a copy of the report.
19. Computation of time
In computing the number of days within which any act is to be done, they shall be
reckoned exclusive of the first and inclusive of the last day, unless the last day shalI hap-
pen to falI on a Sunday or public holiday, in which case the time shall be reckoned exclu-
sive of that day also.
20. Service of notices
Any notice, summons or other document issued under these Regulations may be
served by sending the same by registered letter to the address of the person to be served.
21. Proof of service
The service of any notice, summons, or other document may be proved by the oath or
affidavit of the person by whom it was served.
22. Allowances to witnesses
All witnesses attending before the court shall be entitled to the same allowances as
witnesses attending the High Court.
[L.N.107of1955.]
23. Publication of Regulations
A copy of these Regulations shall be kept at every custom house and at the office of
the Government Marine Officer and of every harbour master in Nigeria, and any person
desiring to peruse them shall be entitled to do so free of charge.
[L.N. 67 of 1955.]

-- 217 of 731 --