1. The National Boundary Commission Act, Cap. 238, Laws of the Federation
1990 is repealed.
2.-(1) There is established a body to be known as the National Boundary
Commission (in this Act referred to as "the Commission").
(2) The Commission-
(a) shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal;
(b) may sue and be sued in its corporate name; and
(c) may acquire, hold or dispose of any property, movable or immovable for the
purpose of carrying out any of its functions under this Act.
3.-(1) There is established for the Commission, Zonal Liaison Offices.
(2) Each Zonal Liaison Office shall-
(a) comprise of a number of States as may be determined, from time to time, by
the Commission;
(b) be headed by a member of staff of the Commission to be known and referred
to as the Zonal Liaison Officer; and
(c) coordinate the activities of the Commission in the zone in addition to such
other functions as may be assigned to it, from time to time, by the Commission.
4.- (1) The Commission consist of-
(a) the Vice President of the Federation, who shall be the Chairman;
(b) the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice;
(c) the Minister of-
(i) Defence,
(ii) Police Affairs,
(iii) Foreign Affairs,
Commence-
ment.
Repeal of
Act, Cap.
238. LFN
1990.
Establishment
of the
Commission.
Establishment
of Zonal
Liaison
Offices, etc.
Composition
of the
Commission,
etc.

-- 3 of 19 --

2006 No. 12 National Boundary Commission (Establishment) Act
(iv) Internal Affairs,
(v) Works,
(vi) Co-operation and Integration in Africa,
(vii) Economic Planning or Presidential Adviser, National Planning
Commission, and
(viii) Petroleum Resources;
(d) the National Security Adviser;
(e) the Inspector-General of Police ;
(f) Director-General, National Boundary Commission who shall also be the
Secretary to the Commission;
(g) six other members to be appointed by the President each representing a
geopolitical zone from the public or private sector with recognized standing and
who possess the requisite qualification, expertise and experience in boundary and
border matters;
(h) the Governor or Governors, as the case may be, who may be co-opted, when
a dispute involving the State or States arise; and
(i) any other Minister who may be co-opted, from time to time, when matters
affecting his area of operation arise.
(2) The Chairman and other members shall be-
(a) part-time members of the Commission; and
(b) appointed by the President.
(3) The members other than ex-officio members of the Commission-
(a) shall each hold office for a period of four years on such terms and conditions
as may be specified in their letter of appointment;
(b) may be re-appointed for one further period of four years and no more.
(4) The supplementary provisions set out in the Schedule to this Act shall have
effect with respect to the proceedings of the Commission and the other matters contained
therein.
5.-(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3 of this Act, a person shall
cease to hold office as a member of the Commission if-
(a) he is declared bankrupt;
(b) he is convicted of a felony or any offence involving dishonesty or fraud;
(c) he becomes of unsound mind or incapable of carrying out his duties arising
from infirmity of the body or mind;
(d) he is guilty of a serious misconduct in relation to his duties;
(e) in the case of a person possessed of a professional qualification, he is
disqualified or suspended from practicing his profession in any part of the world by
an order of a competent authority made in respect of that member; or