1. Establishment of the Centre

(1) There is hereby established a body to be known as the National Centre for Eco-
nomic Management and Administration (in this Act referred to as "the Centre") which
shall have the functions assigned to it by this Act.

(2) The Centre shall be a body corporate, with perpetual succession and a common
seal and may sue and be sued in its corporate name.

2. Objectives and functions of the Centre

(1) The Centre shall-

(a)  serve primarily as a training centre for economic planners, budget and project officers at the Federal, State and local government levels;

(b)  develop and strengthen specific skills, as will enhance the quality of management of the national economy at the micro and sectoral levels;

(c)         be a policy laboratory for vigorous and sustained development and promotion
of highly specialised skills required for enhancing efficient and effective plan-
ning and management of the Nigerian economy;

(d)       organise and conduct specialised training courses and programmes designed to
strengthen the capability of senior public functionaries in the formulation,
analysis, implementation and monitoring of economic development plans,
budgets and policies;

(e)        organise and conduct courses, workshops and seminars, which address specific
aggregate macro, sectoral and micro economic issues of interest and concern to
all levels of government and combinations thereof;

(f)         undertake, commission and participate in in-depth research, studies and con-
sultancy services in relevant fields to-

(i)    improve the quality and coverage of courses and programmes of the Centre;

(ii)    enhance the understanding of the workings of the Nigerian economy at macro, sectoral and micro level of analysis;

(iii)   cater for national and specific organisational objectives;

(g)        Issue certificates of merit and attendance to successful participants at the Centre.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1) of this section, the courses
and programme to be organised and conducted by the Centre shall include-

(a)    economic planning, including planning techniques, project evaluation and
selection, plan implementation and monitoring;

(b)    economic policy formulation and analysis, including policy formulation tech-
niques, impact analysis, policy implementation and monitoring; and

(c)    the use of high-technology computational facilities in economic planning and
management.

3. Establishment of the Governing Council, etc.

(1) There shall be established for the Centre, a Governing Council (in this Act re-
ferred to as "the Council") which shall provide the general policy guidelines, for the day-
to-day administration of the affairs of the Centre.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1) of this section, it shall be the
responsibility of the Council to-

(a)    consider and approve for the Centre, its-

(i)    long-range plan of activities;

(ii)   programme of studies and research to be undertaken;
(iii)  annual budget; and

(iv) investment plans;

(b)        advise the Minister on policies, plans and programme for effective planning
and management of the Nigerian economy for sustained development;

(c)       establish and maintain for research purposes and for other purposes connected
with the functions conferred on the Centre by or pursuant to this Act an up-to-
date library, comprising reports and other publications for the advancement of
knowledge in the area of work undertaken by it;

(d)        provide for and support the publication and effective dissemination of materi-
als and ideas in areas connected with the functions conferred on the Centre by
or pursuant to this Act;

(e)          enter into such contracts as may be necessary or expedient for carrying into
effect the provisions of this Act;

(f)             acquire and hold such movable and immovable property as may be necessary
or expedient for carrying into effect the provisions of this Act and for the same
purpose may sell, lease, mortgage, or otherwise allocate or dispose of any
property acquired or held by the Centre and no longer required by the Centre;
and

(g)           carry out such other activities as are necessary and expedient for the full dis-
charge of any of the functions conferred on the Council under or pursuant to
this Act.

4. Membership of Council

(1) The Council shall consist of a chairman to be appointed by the President on the

advice of the Minister and the following other members, that is-

(a)      the Director-General of the Centre;

(b)      the Director, Ministry of Budget and Planning;

(c)      the Director of Research, Central Bank of Nigeria;

(d)      the Director-General of each of the following bodies-

(i)    Manpower Development Department, Federal Civil Service Commis-
sion or his representative;

(ii)   Federal Ministry of Finance or his representative;

(e)       Director-General, Nigerian Institute for Social and Economic Research;

(f)       one representative of the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce,  Industry, Mines and Agriculture;

(g)       one eminent scholar in economics, representing the interest of the universities,
to be appointed by the Minister; and

(h)       one person with experience in national economic management, to represent interests not otherwise represented in this subsection, to be appointed by the
Minister.

(2) Subject to subsections (3) and (4) of this section, a person appointed as a member

of the Council (not being an ex-officio member) shall serve for a period of three years and
shall be eligible for re-appointment for one further period of three years.

(3) The Minister may remove from office, a member of the Council (not being an
ex-officio member) if he is satisfied that it is not in the interest of the Centre that the per-
son concerned should continue in office.

(4) A member of the Council may resign his office by notice in writing, under his
hand, addressed to the Minister.

(5) The supplementary provisions contained in the Schedule to this Act, shall have
effect with respect to the proceedings of the Council and the other matters mentioned
therein.

[Schedule.]

5. Appointment of the Director-General of the Centre

(1) There shall be appointed by the President, on the recommendation of the Minis-
ter, a Director-General for the Centre.

(2) The Director-General shall be the Chief Executive of the Centre and shall be re-
sponsible to the Council for detailed management of the affairs of the Centre.

(3) The Director-General shall hold office on such terms and conditions as may be
specified in his letter of appointment.

6. Appointment of other staff of the Centre

(1) There shall be appointed by the Council, the following officers for the Centre,

that is-

(a)       a secretary and Director of personnel;

(b)        a Director of each of the training departments;

(c)       a Director of research;

(d)       a Director of finance and supplies.

(2) The secretary and Director of personnel shall be responsible to the Director-
General of the Centre, for the day-to-day administration and for the finances of the
Centre.

(3) The Director of training shall be responsible to the Director-General of the Centre
for organising and conducting the training courses, programmes, seminars and workshops

and other studies undertaken by the Centre, including the collation and publication of
course materials and other publications relating thereto.

(4) The Director of research shall be responsible to the Director-General of the Cen-
tre for the proper management of the finance and materials of the Centre.

(6) The Council may, from time to time, appoint such other staff as may be required
for the purposes of the efficient performance of the functions conferred on the Centre
under this Act.

(7) The officers and other employees of the Centre (other than the Director-General)
shall hold office on such terms and conditions as apply in similar organisations and as
may be specified by the Council after consultation with the Minister.

7. Service in the Centre to be pensionable

(1) Service at the Centre shall be approved service for the purpose of the Pensions
Act and, accordingly, officers and other persons employed in the Centre shall be entitled
to pensions, gratuities and other retirement benefits as prescribed thereunder.

[Cap. P4.]

(2) Nothing in this section shall prevent the appointment of a person on a temporary
basis to any office at the Centre, on terms which preclude the grant of a pension and gra-
tuity or other retirement benefit in respect of that office.

(3) For the purposes of the application of the provisions of the Pensions Act, any
power exercisable thereunder by a Minister or other authority of the Government of the
Federation, other than the power to make regulations under section 23 thereof, is here-
by vested in and shall be exercisable by the Council and not by any other person or
authority.

8. Financial provisions

(1) The Council shall establish and maintain a fund from which shall be defrayed all
expenditures incurred by the Centre.

(2) There shall be paid or credited to the fund established pursuant to subsection (1)
of this section-

(a)      such sums as may be provided by the Federal Government or a State Govern-
ment for payment into the fund;

(b)       all subscriptions, fees and charges for services rendered by the Centre; and

(c)       subject to subsection (3) of this section, all sums accruing to the Centre by way
of gifts, testamentary disposition and endowments or contributions from phil-
anthropic persons or organisations or otherwise howsoever.

(3) The Centre may, within and outside Nigeria, accept gifts of land, money or other
property upon such terms and conditions, if any, as may be specified by the person or
organisation making the gift:

Provided, however, that the Centre shall not accept any gift if the conditions at-
tached by the person or organisation making the gift, to the acceptance thereof, are con-
sidered inconsistent with the functions of the Centre or its position as a non-partisan
Centre, free from any undue external influence.

9. Borrowing powers

The Centre may, with the consent of or in accordance with the general authority given
by the Minister, borrow by way of loan or overdraft from any source, any monies re-
quired by the Centre for meeting its obligations and discharging its functions under this
Act.

10. Power to invest fund

(1) The Centre may, subject to the provision of this Act and the conditions of any
trust created in respect of any property, invest all or any of its funds with the consent or
general authority given by the Minister.

(2) The Council may invest any surplus fund of the Centre in such securities as may
be approved by the Minister.

11. Estimates of income and expenditure

The Director-General of the Centre shall, not later than 31 October in each year, pre-
pare an estimate of the income and expenditure of the Centre during the next succeeding
year and, when so prepared, shall be submitted to the Minister for approval by the Presi-
dent.

12. Audited account

(1) The Council shall cause to be kept, proper accounts and proper records in relation
to its income and expenditure and when certified by the Council, such accounts shall be
audited as provided in subsection (2) of this section.

(2) The accounts of the Centre shall be audited not later than six months after the end
of each year by an auditor appointed by the Council from the list and in accordance with
the guidelines supplied by the Auditor-General for the Federation.

13. Annual report

The Council shall, not later than 30 September in each year, prepare and submit to the
Minister a report on the activities of the Centre during the immediately preceding year
and shall include in such report the audited accounts of the Centre and the Auditor-
General's report thereon.

14. Staff regulations

(1) The Council may, subject to the provisions of this Act, make staff regulations re-
lating generally to the conditions of service of employees of the Centre and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, regulations may provide for-

(a) the appointment, promotion and disciplinary control (including dismissal) of
employees of the Centre; and

(b)        appeals by such employees against dismissal or other disciplinary measures,

and until such regulations are made, any instrument relating to the conditions of service
of public officers of the Federation shall be applicable, with such modifications as may
be necessary, to the employees of the Centre.

(2) Staff regulations made under subsection (1) of this section, shall not have effect
until approved by the Minister and, when so approved, they need not be published in the
Federal Gazette, but the Council shall cause them to be brought to the notice of all af-
fected persons in such manner as it may, from time to time, determine.

15. Interpretation

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"Centre" means the National Centre for Economic Management and Administration
established under section 1 of this Act;

"Council" means the Governing Council of the Centre, established by section 3 of
this Act;

"chairman" means the chairman of the Council;

"Director-General" means the Director-General of the Centre appointed pursuant to
section 5 (1) of this Act;

"member" includes the chairman of the Council; and

"Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibility for matters relating to
budget and national planning.

16. Short title

This Act may be cited as the National Centre for Economic Management and Admini-
stration Act.