1. Establishment of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency
There is hereby established a body to be known as the National Drug Law Enforce-
ment Agency (in this Act referred to as "the Agency").
2. Composition and proceedings, etc., of the Agency
(1) The Agency shall consist of the following-
(a) a chairman;
(b) a representative of the Nigeria Police Force, not below the rank of an Assistant
Inspector-General;
(c) the Director, Military Intelligence;
(d) the Comptroller-General of Customs;
(e) the Director, State Security Service;
(j) a representative of the Federal Ministry of Justice not below the rank of a Di-
rector;
(g) the Director-General, National Intelligence Agency;
(h) a representative each of the Ministries of Foreign Affairs and Health not below
the rank of Director; and
(i) three other persons.
(2) The President shall appoint the chairman and the members specified in paragraph
(a)-(c) of subsection (I) of this section on the recommendation of the Attorney-General
of the Federation.
N30-3 [Issue I]

-- 3 of 36 --

CAP. N30
National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act
(3) The chairman of the Agency shall be the chief executive of the Agency and shall
be the accounting officer of the Agency.
(4) The provisions of the First Schedule to this Act shall have effect with respect to
the proceedings of the Agency and other matters mentioned therein.
[First Schedule.]
3. Functions of the Agency
(I) Subject to this Act and in addition to any other functions expressly conferred on it
by other provisions of this Act, the Agency shall have responsibility for-
(a)
(b)
the enforcement and the due administration of the provisions of this Act;
the coordination of all drug laws and enforcement functions conferred on any
person or authority, including Ministers in the Government of the Federation,
by any such laws;
adoption of measures to identify, trace, freeze, confiscate or seize proceeds
derived from drug-related offences or property whose value corresponds to
such proceeds;
adoption of measures to eradicate illicit cultivation of narcotic plants and to
eliminate illicit demand for narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances with a
view to reducing human suffering and eliminating financial incentives for il-
licit traffic in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances;
taking such measures which might require the taking of reasonable precautions
to prevent the use of ordinary means of transport for illicit traffic in narcotic
drugs including making special arrangements with transport owners;
adoption of measures which shall include coordinated preventive and repres-
sive action, introduction and maintenance of investigative and control tech-
niques;
adoption of measures to increase the effectiveness of eradication efforts;
the facilitation of rapid exchange of scientific and technical information and
the conduct of research geared towards eradication of illicit use of narcotic
drugs and psychotropic substances;
taking measures for the early destruction or disposal of the narcotic drugs and
psychotropic substances which have been seized, confiscated or forfeited;
facilitation or encouragement of the presence or availability of persons, in-
cluding persons in custody who consent to assist in investigations or partici-
pate in proceedings relating to narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances;
enhancing the effectiveness of law enforcement to suppress illicit traffic in
narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances;
establishing, maintaining and securing communication to facilitate the rapid
exchange of information concerning offences and improving international co-
operation in the suppression of illicit traffic in narcotic drugs and psychotropic
substance by road, sea and air;
(c)
(d)
(e)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)
(k)
(I)
[Issue I] N30-4

-- 4 of 36 --

CAP. N30
National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act
(m) reinforcing and supplementing the measures provided in the Convention on
Narcotic Drugs 1961, as amended by the 1972 Protocol, the 1971 Convention
on Psychotropic Substances and the United Nations Convention Against Illicit
Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances 1989 as adopted by the
Nigerian domestic law, in order to counter the magnitude and extent of illicit
traffic in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and its grave conse-
quences;
(n) taking such measures that may ensure the elimination and prevention of the
root causes of the problems of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances;
(0) strengthening and enhancing effective legal means for international co-
operation in criminal matters for suppressing the international activities of il-
licit traffic in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances;
(P) collaborating with government bodies both within and outside Nigeria carrying
on functions wholly or in part analogous to those of the Agency concerning,
amongst others-
(i) the identities, whereabouts and activities of persons suspected of being
involved in offences mentioned in this Act;
(ii) the movement of proceeds or property derived from the commission of
such offences;
(iii) the movement of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances specified
in the Second Schedule to this Act, and instrumentalities used or in-
tended for use in the commission of such offences;
[Second Schedule.]
(iv) the exchange of personnel and other experts;
(v) the establishment and maintenance of a system for monitoring interna-
tional dealings in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances in order
to identify suspicious transactions and persons engaged in them;
(q) taking charge, supervising, controlling, coordinating all the responsibilities,
functions and activities relating to arrest, investigation and prosecution of all
offences connected with or relating to illicit traffic in narcotic drugs and psy-
chotropic substances, notwithstanding any law to the contrary; and
[1992 No. 15.]
(r) strengthening co-operation with the office of the Attorney-General of the Fed-
eration, the police force, customs agencies, immigration agencies, welfare offi-
cials, health officials and other law enforcement agencies in the eradication of
illicit traffic in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances.
[1992 No. 15.]
(2) All drugs units under existing institutions dealing with offenders or offences con-
nected with or relating to illicit traffic in narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances shall
relate and be responsible to the Agency in the performance of their duties and functions.
[1992 No. 15.]
N30-5 [Issue I]

-- 5 of 36 --

CAP. N30
National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act
4. Special powers of the Agency
(I) The Agency shall have power-
(a) to cause investigation to be conducted as to whether any person has committed
an offence under this Act; and
(b) with a view to ascertaining whether any person has been involved in offences
under this Act or in the proceeds of any such offences, to cause investigations
to be conducted into the properties of any person if it appears to the Agency
that that person's life style and extent of the properties are not justified by his
ostensible source of income.
(2) For the purpose of inquiring into and ascertaining whether an offence under para-
graph (b) of suhsection (I) of this section has been committed, the Agency may, by no-
tice in writing, call upon any person to furnish to it within a time specified in the notice,
such information, returns, accounts, books or other documents in custody or such person
as the Agency may consider tit and proper within the circumstances.
(3) The Agency shall not exercise the power conferred upon it by paragraph (b) of
subsection (I) of this section without first obtaining the approval of the Attorney-General
of the Federation.
(4) For the purpose of carrying out or enforcing the provisions of this Act, all officers
of the Agency involved in the enforcement of the provisions of this Act shall have the
same powers, authority and privileges (including power to bear arms) as are given by law
to members of the Nigerian Police.
[1992 No. 15.1
(5) The agency may at its discretion pay reward to any person, not being a person
employed by the Agency, in respect of any information or service rendered to the Agency
which may be of assistance to the Agency in the performance of its duties under this Act.
[1992 No. 15.]
5. The Secretariat and appointment of Secretary and other staff of the Agency
(I) There shall be established a Secretariat for the Agency.
(2) There shall be appointed for the Agency, a Secretary whose rank shall be equiva-
lent to that of Director-General in the civil service of the Federation and who shall be
appointed by the President.
(3) The Secretary shall be the head of Secretariat of the Agency.
(4) The Secretary shall be responsible for the administration of the Secretariat, keep
the books and records of the Agency and shall be subject to the supervision and control of
the chairman and the Agency.
(5) The Agency may, from time to time, appoint such other staff, as it may deem
necessary, to assist the Agency in the performance of its functions under this Act.
(6) The staff of the Agency appointed under subsection (5) of this section, shall be
appointed upon such terms and conditions of service as the Agency may, after consulta-
tion with the Federal Civil Service Commission, determine.
[Issue Ij N30-6

-- 6 of 36 --

CAP.N30
National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act
(7) The staff of the Agency shall be public officers as detined in the Constitution of
the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as amended.
[Cap. C23.]
6. Application of the Pensions Act
(1) Service in the Agency shall be approved service for the purposes of the Pensions
Act, and accordingly officers and other persons employed in the Agency shall be entitled
to pensions gratuities and other retirement benefits as are prescribed thereunder, so how-
ever that nothing in this Act shall prevent the appointment of a person to any office on
terms which preclude the grant of a pension gratuity or other retirement benefits in
respect of that office.
[Cap. P4. 1992 No. 15.]
(2) For the purposes of the application of the provisions of the Pensions Act, any
power exercisable thereunder by a Minister or other authority of the Government of the
Federation other than the power to make regulations under section 23 thereof, is hereby
vested in and shall be exercisable by the Agency and not by any other person or author-
ity.
[1992 No. 15.]
7. Establishment of special units, etc.
(1) For the effective conduct of the functions of the Agency, there shall be estab-
lished the following units, that is to say-
(a) general and assets investigation unit;
(b) prosecution unit; and
(c) counselling unit.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) of this section, the Agency shall
have power to set up any technical committees to assist it in the performance of its duties
and functions under this Act.
8. Special duties of the units
(1) The general and assets investigation unit shall be charged with responsibility
for-
(a) prevention and detection of offences in violation of the provisions of this Act;
(b) working in collaboration with the Nigerian Customs Services in monitoring the
movement of goods and persons in any customs area, custom stations, customs
ports or customs airports and searching cargoes and incoming and outgoing
vessels, including pleasure craft, and fishing vessels, as well as aircraft and ve-
hicles and, when appropriate, searching crew members, passengers and their
baggages;
(c) detecting consignments suspected of containing narcotic drugs and psycho-
tropic substances coming into or out of a customs area, customs station, cus-
toms port or customs airport;
(d) maintaining surveillance in harbour and dock areas and at airports and border
control points;
N30-7 [Issue 1J

-- 7 of 36 --

CAP.N30
National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act
(e) investigating assets and properties of persons arrested for committing any of-
fence under this Act;
if> identifying and tracing proceeds involved in any offence under this Act and
effecting forfeiture of such proceeds; and
(g) dealing with matters connected with extradition and mutual assistance in
criminal matters.
(2) The prosecution unit shall be charged with responsibility for-
(a) prosecuting offenders under this Act;
(b) supporting the general and assets investigating unit by providing the unit with
legal advice and assistance whenever it is required;
(c) conducting such proceedings as may be necessary towards the recovery of any
assets or property forfeited under this Act;
(d) performing such other legal duties as the Agency may refer to it from time to
time.
(3) The counselling unit shall, in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Health,
have responsibility f()r-
(a) campaigns, seminars and workshops aimed at educating the public on the dan-
ger of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, thereby stimulating interest
in and awareness about drug-related problems;
(b) after-care rehabilitation, social reintegration and education of addicts;
(c) the promotion of the welfare of convicts.
(4) There shall be appointed for each of the units a principal officer who shall be
known by such designation as the Agency may determine.
9. Training programme
The Agency shall initiate, develop or improve a specific training programme for its
law enforcement and other personnel charged with responsibility for the suppression of
offences created by this Act and such programme shall include-
(a) methods used in the detection and suppression of offences under this Act;
(b) routes and techniques used by persons involved in offences under this Act and
appropriate counter-measures;
(c) monitoring of the import and export of narcotic drugs and psychotropic sub-
stances;
(d) detection and monitoring of the movement of proceeds and property derived
from narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and instrumentalities used or in-
tended to be used in the commission of offences under this Act;
(e) methods used for the transfer, concealment or disguise of such proceeds, prop-
erty and instrumentalities;
if> collection of evidence;
(g) law-enforcement techniques; and
(h) dissemination of information about drug laws.
[Issue I] N30 - 8

-- 8 of 36 --

CAP.N30
National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act
10. Power of the Attorney-General of the Federation to give directives to the
Agency
(I) The Attorney-General of the Federation may, from time to time, give general pol-
icy guidelines to the Agency.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of subsection (I) of this sec-
tion, the Attorney-General of the Federation may give to the Agency directives of a gen-
eral nature or specific directives relating generally to a particular matter or case, as the
case may be.
(3) It shall be the duty of the Agency to comply with any policy guidelines or any di-
rective given by the Attorney-General of the Federation pursuant to subsection (I) or (2)
of this section.
PART II
Offences
11. Importation, etc., of cocaine, heroine, or similar drugs, etc.
Any person who, without lawful authority-
(a) imports, manufactures, produces, processes, plants or grows the drugs popu-
larly known as cocaine, LSD, heroine or any other similar drugs shall be guilty
of an offence and liable on conviction to be sentenced to imprisonment for life;
or
(b) exports, transports or otherwise traffics in the drugs popularly known as co-
caine, LSD, heroine or any other similar drugs shall be guilty of an offence and
liable on conviction to be sentenced to imprisonment for life;
(c) sells, buys, exposes or offers for sale or otherwise deals in or with the drugs
popularly known as cocaine, LSD, heroine or any other similar drugs shall be
guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to be sentenced to imprisonment
for life; or
Cd) knowingly possesses or uses the drugs popularly known as cocaine, LSD,
heroine or any other similar drugs by smoking, inhaling or injecting the said
drugs shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to imprisonment
for a term not less than fifteen years but not exceeding 25 years.
12. Occupier unlawfully permitting use of premises
Any person, who being the occupier or is concerned in the management of any prem-
ises, unlawfully permits or causes the premises to be used for the purpose of storing, con-
cealing, processing or dealing in the drug popularly known as cocaine, LSD, heroine or
any other similar drug shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and liable on convic-
tion to be sentenced to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 25 years.
[1992 No. 15.]
13 .
[2003 No. 7.J
N30-9 [Issue 21

-- 9 of 36 --

CAP. N30
National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act
14. Conspiracy, etc.
Any person who-
(a) incites, promises or induces any other person by any means whatsoever to
commit any of the offences referred to in this Act; or
(b) conspires with, aids, abets, counsels, attempts to commit or is an accessory to
any act or offence referred to in this Act,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and liable on conviction to be sentenced to
imprisonment for a term not less than fifteen years and not exceeding 25 years.
[1992 No. 15.]
15. Unlawful assumption of character of officer of the Agency
Any person who, with intent to deceive, unlawfully assumes the name, character, or
designation of an officer of the Agency shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and
liable on conviction to be sentenced to imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years.
LI992 No. 15.]
16. Tampering with drug
Any person who unlawfully removes, conceals, destroys or in any way tampers with
the drug popularly known as cocaine, LSD, heroine or any other similar drug seized from
any person or otherwise in the possession of the Agency or any authorised person shall be
guilty of an offence under this Act and liable on conviction to be sentenced to imprison-
ment for a term not exceeding 25 years.
[1992 No. 15.]
17. Escape or permitting escape
Any person who-
(a) being in lawful custody, escapes; or
(b) aids any person in lawful custody to escape,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and liable on conviction to be sentenced to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years.
[1992 No. 15.]
18. Preventing a person from attending as a witness
Any person who wilfully prevents or attempts to prevent any person who has been
duly summoned to attend as a witness before the Federal High Court from attending as a
witness, or from producing anything in evidence pursuant to the subpoena or summons
served on him shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and liable on conviction to be
sentenced to imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years.
[1992 No. 15.]
[Issue 2) N30 - 10

-- 10 of 36 --

CAP.N30
National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act
19. Unlawful possession of cocaine, etc.
Any person who, without lawful authority, knowingly possesses the drugs popularly
known as cocaine, LSD, heroine or any other similar drugs shall be guilty of an offence
under this Act and liable on conviction to be sentenced to imprisonment for a term not
less than fifteen years and not exceeding 25 years.
[1992 No. 15.]
20. Offences in relation to drug abuse and penalties
(I) Any person who, without lawful authority (the proof of which shall lie on him)
commits any of the following offences, that is to say-
(a) engages in the production, manufacture, extraction, preparation, offering for
sale, distribution, sale, delivery on any terms whatsoever, brokerage, dispatch,
dispatch in transit, transportation, importation or exportation of any narcotic
drug or any psychotropic substance contrary to the provisions of the 1961
Convention and its Protocols, or the 1971 Convention Against Illicit Traffic in
Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances 1989;
(b) engages in the cultivation of opium, opium poppy, coca bush or cannabis plant
for the purpose of the production of narcotic drugs contrary to the 196 I Con-
vention;
(c) has in his possession or engages or purchases any narcotic drug or psycho-
tropic substance for the purpose of any of the activities enumerated in para-
graph (a) of this subsection;
(d) engages in the acquisition, possession or use of property knowing at the time
of acquisition, possession or use that such property was derived from any of-
fence referred to in this section;
[Second Schedule.]
(e) engages in the possession of equipment or material or substance listed in the
Second Schedule of this Act knowing that such equipment, material or sub-
stance are to be used in or for the illicit cultivation, production or manufacture
of narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances;
if> engages in the manufacture, transportation or distribution of equipment, mate-
rials or of any substance listed in the Second Schedule to this Act knowing that
such equipment, material or substance are to be used in or for the illicit culti-
vation, production or manufacture of narcotic drugs or psychotropic sub-
stances;
[Second Schedule.]
(g) engages in the management, organisation or financing of any of the offences
under paragraphs (a) to if> of this subsection;
[1992 No. 15.]
(h) engages in the conversion or transfer of property knowing that such property is
derived from any offence under this subsection;
(i) engages in the concealment or disguise of the true nature, source, location,
disposition, movement, rights with respect to or ownership of property know-
ing that such property is derived from any offence referred to in this section,
N30 - II [Issue I]

-- 11 of 36 --

CAP. N30
National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and subject to the provisions of subsection (3)
of this section, be liable on conviction to the penalties provided in subsection (2) of this
section.
(2) The penalties for offences under subsection (I) of this section shall-
(a) in respect of an offence under paragraphs (a), (b), (d), (e), (j) and (h), be im-
prisonment for life;
(b) in respect of offences under paragraphs (c), (g) and (i), be imprisonment for a
term not less than fifteen years and not exceeding 25 years.
(3) The Federal High Court before whom an accused in being convicted may in addi-
tion to the punishment prescribed in subsection (2) of this section, make an order requir-
ing an offender to undergo measures such as treatment, education, aftercare, rehabilita-
tion or social reintegration.
(4) Notwithstanding subsections (2) and (3) of this section, the Federal High Court
before whom a minor is being convicted may, in an appropriate case, make an order as
the circumstances may determine-
(a) either as an alternative to conviction or punishment; or
(b) for treatment, education, aftercare, rehabilitation, social integration of the of-
fender.
21. What constitutes exportation, etc.
( I) A person shall be deemed to have exported a narcotic drug or psychotropic sub-
stance under this Act, if he brings to or deposits the narcotic drug or psychotropic sub-
stance concerned at any time at any customs area, customs station, customs airport, cus-
toms port or any other customs point generally.
(2) A person shall be deemed to commit an offence under this Act if-
(a) he actually does the act which constitutes the offence; or
(b) he does or omits to do any act for the purpose of enabling or aiding another
person to commit the offence; or
(c) he aids another person in committing the offence; or
(d) he counsels or procures any other person in committing the offence; or
(e) he counsels or procures any other person to commit the offence in which case
he may himself be charged with committing the offence or with counselling or
procuring the commission of the offence.
(3) Any person convicted of counselling or procuring the commission of an offence
under this Act, shall be liable to the same punishment as is prescribed under this Act for
the commission of the offence.
22. Offence, of exportation of narcotic drugs, etc.
(I) Any person whose journey originates from Nigeria without being detected of car-
rying prohibited narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances, but is found to have imported
such prohibited narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances into a foreign country, not-
withstanding that such a person has been tried or convicted for any offence of unlawful
[Issue I] N30 - 12

-- 12 of 36 --

CAP. N30
National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act
importation or possession of such narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances in that for-
eign country, shall be guilty of an offence of exportation of narcotic drugs or psycho-
tropic substances from Nigeria under this subsection.
[1990 No. 33. 1992 No.1 5.]
(2) Any Nigerian citizen found guilty in any foreign country of an offence involving
narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances and who thereby brings the name of Nigeria
into disrepute shall be guilty of an offence under this subsection.
[1990 No. 33.]
(3) Any person convicted of an offence under subsection (l) or (2) of this section
shall be liable to imprisonment for a term of five years without an option of a fine and his
assets and properties shall be liable to forfeiture as provided under this Act.
[1990 No. 33.]
23. Attempts
(l) Where a person is charged with any of the offences under this Act and the evi-
dence establishes an attempt to commit that offence, he may be convicted of having at-
tempted to commit that offence although the attempt is not separately charged and such a
person shall be punished as prescribed for the offence under this Act.
(2) Where a person is charged with an attempt to commit an offence under this Act,
but the evidence establishes the commission of the full offence, the offender shall not be
entitled to acquittal but shall be convicted of the offence and punished as provided under
this Act.
24. Offences by bodies corporate
(I) Where an offence under this Act which has been committed by a body corporate
is proved to have been committed on the instigation or with the connivance of or attribut-
able to any neglect on the part of a director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of
the body corporate, or any person purporting to act in any such capacity, he, as well as
the body corporate, where practicable, shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.
(2) Where a body corporate is convicted of an offence under this Act, the Federal
High Court may order that the body corporate shall thereupon and without any further
assurance, but for such order, be wound up and all its assets and properties forfeited to
the Federal Government.
25. Commercial carrier
(I) It shall be the duty of every commercial carrier to take reasonable precaution to--
(a) ensure that its means of transport are not used in the commission of offences
under this Act;
(b) comply with appropriate security measures at points of entry and exit in the
Federal Republic of Nigeria and other customs control areas, to prevent unau-
thorised cargo in its means of transportation.
N30-13 [Issue I)

-- 13 of 36 --

CAP.N30
National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act
(2) Such precautions as are referred to in subsection (I) of this section shall In-
clude-
(a) the training of personnel to identify suspicious consignment or persons;
(h) promotion of integrity of their personnel;
(c) submission of cargo manifests in advance;
(d) use of tamper-resistant, individually verifiable seals on containers;
(e) reporting to the Agency at the earliest opportunity all suspicious circumstances
relating to drug trafficking.
(3) Any commercial carrier which violates the provisions of subsection (I) of this
section shall, in addition to any other penalty provided in any other Act or enactment, be
guilty of an offence.
(4) Where an offence under subsection (3) of this section is committed by a body
corporate, every person who at the time of the commission of the offence was a proprie-
tor, director, general manager, secretary or other similar officer, servant or agent of the
body corporate (or a person purporting to act in any such capacity) he, as well as the body
corporate, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and may be proceeded against and
liable on conviction to a tine not exceeding N I00,000.
26. Jurisdiction, etc.
(I) The Federal High Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction to try offenders under
this Act.
[1999 No. 62.1
(2) The Federal High Court shall have power to impose the penalties provided for in
this Act.
[1999 No. 62.]
(3) In any trial for an offence under this Act, the fact that an accused person is in pos-
session of pecuniary resources or property for which he cannot satisfactorily account and
which is disproportionate to his known sources of income, or that he had at or about the
time of the alleged offence obtained an accretion to his pecuniary resources or property
for which he cannot satisfactorily account, may be proved and may be taken into consid-
eration by the Federal High Court as corroborating the testimony of any witness in such
trial.
[1999 No. 62.]
27. Forfeiture after conviction in certain cases
(I) Any person convicted of an offence under this Act shall forfeit to the Federal
Government-
(a) all the assets and properties which mayor are the subject of an interim order of
the Federal High Court after an attachment by the Agency as specified in sec-
tion 34 of this Act;
[Issue I J N30 - 14

-- 14 of 36 --

CAP. N30
National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act
(b) any asset or property constituted, or derived from, any proceeds the person
obtained, directly or indirectly, as a result of such offence not already dis-
closed in the Assets Declaration Form or not falling under paragraph (a) of this
subsection;
(c) any of the person's property or instrumentalities used in any manner to commit
or to facilitate the commission of such offence not already disclosed in the As-
sets Declaration Form or not falling under paragraph (a) of this subsection.
(2) The Federal High Court in imposing sentence on such person, shall order, in ad-
dition to any other sentence imposed pursuant to section II of this Act, that the person
forfeit to the Federal Government all property described in subsection (I) of this section.
(3) In this section, "proceeds" means any property derived or obtained, directly or
indirectly, through the commission of the offence.
28. Forfeited property
For the avoidance of doubt and without any further assurance than this Act, all the
properties of a person convicted of an offence under this Act and already the subject of an
interim order shall be forfeited to the Federal Government.
29. Foreign assets
(I) Where it is established that any convicted person has assets or properties in a for-
eign country, such assets or properties, subject to any treaty or arrangement with such
foreign country, shall be forfeited to the Federal Government.
(2) The Agency shall, through the office of the Attorney-General of the Federation,
ensure that the forfeited assets or properties are effectively transferred and vested in the
Federal Government.
30. Forfeiture of passports
The passport of any person convicted of an offence involving the illegal importation
or exportation of any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance shall be forfeited to the
Federal Government and shall not be returned to that person unless or until the President
directs otherwise after the grant of a pardon or on the exercise of the prerogative of mercy
under the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as amended.
31. Property subject to forfeiture
The following property is subject to forfeiture to the Federal Government and no
other propriety right shall exist in them-
(a) any property, real or personal, which represents the gross receipts a person
obtains directly as a result of the violation of this Act or which is traceable to
such gross receipts;
(b) any property within Nigeria which represents the proceeds of an offence under
the laws of a foreign country involving the manufacture, importation, sale,
distribution, illicit traffic, abuse or misuse of any narcotic drug or psychotropic
substance within whose jurisdiction such offence or activity would be punish-
able by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year and which would be
N30-IS [Issue II

-- 15 of 36 --

CAP. N30
National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act
punishable by imprisonment under this Act if such act or activity had occurred
within Nigeria.
32. Further provisions as to forfeiture of property
Without prejudice to the provisions of any other law permitting the forfeiture of prop-
erty, the following shall also be subject to forfeiture under this Act and no proprietary
right shall exist in them-
(0) all narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances which have been manufactured,
distributed, dispensed or acquired in any manner in violation of this Act;
(b) all raw materials, products and equipment of any kind which are used, or in-
tended for use, in manufacturing, compounding, processing, delivering, im-
porting or exporting any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance;
(c) all instrumentalities of conveyance, including aircraft, vehicles, or vessels
which are used or are intended for use, to transport, or in any manner to facili-
tate the transportation, sale, receipt, possession or concealment of substances
described in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, except that-
(i) no means of conveyance used by any person as a common carrier in the
transaction of business as a common carrier shall be forfeited under
this section unless it shall appear that the owner or other person in
charge of such means of conveyance was a consenting party or privy to
a violation of this Act;
(ii) no means of conveyance shall be forfeited under this section by reason
of any act established by the owner thereof to have been committed by
any person other than such owner while such means of conveyance was
unlawfully in the possession of a person other than the owner in viola-
tion of the criminal laws of Nigeria or any part thereof; and
(iii) no means of conveyance shall be forfeited under this section to the
extent of an interest of an owner, by reason of any act established by
that owner to have been committed without the knowledge, consent or
wilful connivance of that owner;
(d) all books, records and research, including formulae, microfilms, tapes and data
used or intended to be used in violation of any provision of this Act;
(e) all monies, negotiable instruments, securities or other things of value furnished
or intended lO be furnished by any person in exchange for any narcotic drug or
psychotropic substance in violation of this Act or a\l proceeds traceable to such
an exchange, and all monies, negotiable instruments and securities used or in-
tended to be used to facilitate any violation of this Act;
if) all real properly, including any right, title and interest (including any leasehold
interest) in the whole or any piece or parcel of land and any improvements or
appurtenances which is used or intended to be used, in any manner or part to
commit, or facilitate the commission of, an offence under this Act.
33. Seizure of property
(I) Any property subject to forfeiture under this Act may be seized by the Agency in
the following circumstances-
(a) if the seizure is incidental to an arrest or search;
[Issue I] N30 - 16

-- 16 of 36 --

CAP. N30
National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act
(b) in the case of property liable to forfeiture upon process issued by the Federal
High Court following an application made by the Agency in accordance with
the prescribed rules.
(2) Whenever property is seized under any of the provisions of this Act, the Agency
may-
(a) place the property under seal; or
(b) remove the property to a place designated by the Agency.
(3) Property taken or detained under this section shall be deemed to be in the custody
of the Agency, subject only to orders of the Federal High Court.
PART III
Forfeiture of assets of persons arrested for offences under this Act
34. Investigation of assets and properties of persons arrested for an offence under
this Act
Where a person is arrested for an offence under this Act, the Agency shall immedi-
ately trace and attach all the assets and properties of the person and shall thereafter cause
to be obtained an interim attachment order by the Federal High Court.
35. Disclosure of assets and properties by an arrested person, etc.
(I) Where a person is arrested for committing an offence under this Act, it shall be
obligatory for such person to make a full disclosure of all his assets and properties by
completing the Declaration of Assets Form contained in the Third Schedule to this Act.
[Third Schedule.]
(2) The Declaration of Assets Form shall be forwarded to the Agency for full investi-
gation by the general and assets investigation unit of the Agency.
(3) Any person who-
(a) knowingly fails to make full disclosure of his assets and liabilities; or
(b) knowingly makes a declaration that is false; or
(c) fails to answer any question; or
Cd) fails, neglects or refuses to make a declaration or furnish any information re-
quired in the Assets Declaration Form,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and liable on conviction to imprisonment for a
term of ten years.
(4) Subject to the provisions of section 33 of this Act, whenever the assets and prop-
erties of any person arrested under this Act have been attached, the general and assets
investigation unit shall apply to the Federal High Court for an interim forfeiture order
under the provisions of this Act.
N30-17 [Issue I)

-- 17 of 36 --

CAP. N30
National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act
36. Interim forfeiture order
Where-
(a) the assets or properties of any person arrested for an offence under this Act
have been seized; or
(b) any asset or property has been seized by the Agency under this Act,
the Agency shall cause an application to be made to the Federal High Court for an interim
order forfeiting the property concerned to the Federal Government and the Federal High
Court shall, if satisfied that there is prima facie evidence that the property concerned is
liable to forfeiture, make an interim order forfeiting the property to the Federal Govern-
ment.
37. Final order
Where an arrested person is convicted of an offence under this Act, the Agency, or
any authorised officer, shall apply to the Federal High Court for a final order of confisca-
tion and forfeiture of the convicted person's assets and properties already subject to an
interim order under this Act.
38. Final disposal of forfeited property
(I) A copy of every final order forfeiting the asset and property shall be forwarded to
the Agency.
(2) Upon receipt of a final order pursuant to this section, the Secretary to the Agency
shall take steps to dispose of the property concerned by sale or otherwise and where the
property is sold, the proceeds thereof shall be paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund
of the Federation.
(3) Where any part of the property included in a final order is money in a bank ac-
count or in the possession of any person, the Agency shall cause a copy of the order to be
produced and served on the manager or any person in control of the head oftice or branch
of the bank concerned and that manager or person shall forthwith pay over the money to
the Agency without further assurance than this Act and the Agency shall pay the money
received into the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the Federation.
(4) The Attorney-General of the Federation may make rules or regulations for the
disposal or sale of any property or assets forfeited pursuant to this Act.
39. Offences in relation to forfeiture orders
(I) Any person, who without due authorisation by the Agency, deals with, sells or
otherwise disposes of any property or asset which is the subject of an attachment, interim
order or final order shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to imprisonment
for a term of five years without the option of a tine.
(2) Any manager or person in control of the head office or branch of a bank who fails
to pay over to the Agency upon the production to him of a final order shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act and shall be liable on conviction £0 imprisonment for a term of not
less than one year and not more than three years, without the option of a tine.
[Issue I] N30-]8

-- 18 of 36 --

CAP. N30
National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act
40. Conseqnence of an acquittal in respect of assets and properties
(1) Where a person is discharged or acquitted by a Federal High Court of an offence
under this Act, the Federal High Court may make an order of revocation or confirmation,
as the case may be, of an interim order made pursuant to this Act, whichever order is
considered just, appropriate or reasonable within this Act:
Provided that the property may still be attached where a discharge is merely given
for a period of thirty days.
[1999 No. 62.]
(2) Where an interim order is revoked by a Federal High Court under subsection (I)
of this section, all assets and properties of the person concerned shall be released to him
by the Agency.
41. Power to search, seize and arrest
(1) For the purpose of this Act-
(a) any police officer or customs officer; or
[1999 No. 62.]
(b) any officer of the Agency involved in the enforcement of the provisions of this
Act-
[1992 No. 15.]
(i) may, without warrant, enter and search any land, building or carrier,
including aircraft, vehicle or container or any other instrumentalities
whatsoever which he has reason to believe is connected with the com-
mission of an offence under this Act;
(ii) may perform, test and take samples of any substances relating to the
commission of an offence which are found on the land, building or car-
rier, including aircraft, vehicle, container or any other instrumentalities
whatsoever searched pursuant to paragraph (a) of this subsection;
(iii) arrest any person whom he has reason to believe has committed an
offence under this Act;
(iv) seize any item or substance which he has reason to believe has been
used in the commission of an offence under this Act.
(2) A written receipt of the Agency shall be given for any item, substance or thing
seized under subsection (1) of this section.
42. Freezing order on banks
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other Act or enactment, where any
person is arrested under this Act, the chairman of the Agency may, if he is satisfied that
the money in the account of an arrested person is made through illegal dealing in traf-
ficking in narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances, issue, or instruct a bank examiner to
issue, an order addressed to the manager of the bank where the account is or is believed
by him to be or the head office of the bank.
[1992 No. 15.]
N30-19 [Issue I]

-- 19 of 36 --

CAP. N30
National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act
(2) The chairman of the Agency or hank examiner may by an order issued under sub-
section (I) of this section, or by any subsequent order, direct the bank to supply any in-
formation and produce books and documents relating to the account and to stop all out-
ward payments, operations or transactions (including any bill of exchange) in respect of
the account of the arrested person.
(3) Any order under subsection (I) of this section, shall not be issued or made with-
out prior written approval of the Attorney-General of the Federation and shall be in the
form prescribed in the Fourth Schedule of this Act.
[Fourth Schedule.]
(4) The manager shall take necessary steps to comply with the requirements of this
order made pursuant to subsection (2) of this section.
(5) In this section-
(a) "bank" has the meaning given to it in section 66 of the Banks and Other Fi-
nancial Institutions Act;
[Cap. 83.]
(b) the reference to an order issued includes a reference to any order, direction or
requirement addressed to the manager of a bank or any other officer of a bank
which directs or purports to direct the manager or such officer to stop all out-
ward payments, operations or transactions in respect of any account with that
bank.
43. Application of Act to certain persons
The Agency may seek the authority of the President to conduct investigation on any
person whose lifestyle appears to the Agency to be beyond his source of income and the
provisions of the Act, including declaration of assets and forfeiture of assets and proper-
ties, shall apply to such person as if he were a person committing an offence under this
Act.
PARTlY
Application of certain enactments
44. Application of certain enactments
(I) The offences under Part II of this Act shall, for the purposes of the Extradition
Act, as amended, be regarded as extraditable offences under that Act.
[Cap. E25.]
(2) The President may by order published in the Federal Gazette extend the provi-
sions of--
(a) the Transfer of Convicted Offenders (Enactment and Enforcement) Act; and
[Cap. TI6.]
the Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters within the Commonwealth (Enact-
ment and Enforcement) Act,
[Cap. M24.]
(b)
[Issue I] N30- 20

-- 20 of 36 --

CAP. N30
National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act
to apply to any country outside the Commonwealth and, accordingly, the provisions of
the enactments mentioned in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this subsection shall have effect in
their application to this Act.
45. Information to be supplied by Nigerian diplomatic mission
(I) Every head of any Nigerian diplomatic mission abroad shall, at least once in
every six months, forward to the Agency information and documents about Nigerians
convicted and sentenced for drug offences in their country of accreditation.
(2) The information and documents referred to in subsection (1) of this section are as
follows-
(a) the name, date and place of birth of the convicted offender;
(b) the address (if any) of the convicted offender;
(c) a certified copy of the judgment;
(d) a statement of the facts upon which the conviction and sentence were based if
not contained in the judgement;
(e) the nature, duration and date of the commencement of the sentence;
(f) whenever appropriate, any medical or social reports on the convicted offender
and any information concerning his medical treatment in the sentencing coun-
try and any recommendation for his further treatment;
(g) identities and whereabouts of persons suspected of being involved with the
convicted offender;
(h) information about the proceeds of property derived from the commission of
such offence.
PARTY
Miscellaneous and supplemental provisions
46. Fund
(I) The Agency shall establish and maintain a fund from which shall be defrayed all
expenditure reasonably incurred by the Agency for the execution of its functions under
this Act.
(2) There shall be paid and credited to the fund established pursuant to subsection (1)
of this section, such monies as may in each year be approved by the Federal Government
for the purpose of the Agency.
(3) The Agency may accept gifts of land, money or other property (whether within or
outside Nigeria) upon such terms and conditions, if any, as may be specified by the per-
son or organisation making the gift:
Provided that the terms and conditions are not contrary to the objectives and func-
tions of the Agency under this Act.
N30 -21 [Issue I]

-- 21 of 36 --

CAP. N30
National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act
47. Accounts and audit
The Agency shall keep proper accounts in a form which conforms with accepted
commercial standards of its receipts, payments, assets and liabilities and shall submit the
accounts annually for auditing by a qualified auditor appointed from the list of auditors
and in accordance with the guidelines supplied by the Auditor-General for the Federation.
48. Annual report
The Agency shall, not later than 30 September in each year, submit to the President a
report of its activities during the immediately preceding year and shall include in such
report the audited accounts of the Agency.
49. Obstruction of the Agency or authorised officers
Any person who-
(a) wilfully obstructs the Agency or any authorised officer of the Agency in the
exercise of any of the powers conferred on the Agency by this Act; or
(b) fails to comply with any lawful enquiry or requirements made by any author-
ised officer in accordance with the provisions of this Act,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall be liable on conviction to imprison-
ment for a term not exceeding five years or to a fine of N20,000 or to both such impris-
onment and fine.
50. Regulations
The Attorney-General of the Federation may make rules or regulations with respect to
the exercise of any of the duties, functions or powers of the Agency under this Act.
51. Repeal
Subsection (15) of section 3 of the Miscellaneous Offences Act, is hereby repealed
and consequentially, all the provisions of any amending Act relative to the aforesaid
paragraph are hereby repealed.
[Cap. M17. 1992 No. 15.]
52. Interpretation
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-
"Agency" means the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency established by sec-
tion 1 of this Act;
"cannabis plant" means any plant of the genus of Cannabii;
"coca bush" means the plant or any species of the genus of Erythroylos;
"commercial carrier" means any person or any public, private or other entity en-
gaged in transporting persons, goods or mails for remuneration, hire or any other benefit;
"confiscation" includes forfeiture or the permanent deprivation of property by order
of a Federal High Court;
[Issue I] N30- 22

-- 22 of 36 --

CAP.N30
National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act
"freezing" or "seizure" means temporarily prohibiting the transfer, conversion, dis-
posal or movement of property, asset or money or temporarily assuming custody or con-
trol of them on the basis of attachment by the Agency;
"narcotic drug" means any of the substances, natural or synthetic in the First Sched-
ule of the single Convention of Narcotic Drugs 1961 and the Convention as amended by
the 1972 Protocol amending the single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, as amended in the
Second Schedule to this Act including the United Nations Convention Against Illicit
Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances 1989;
[Second Schedule.]
"opium poppy" means the plant of the species of Papaver somniferum;
"psychotropic substances" means any substances, natural or synthetic, or any natu-
ral materials specified in Schedules I, II, III and IV of the Convention on Drugs or Psy-
chotropic Substances 1971.
53. Short title
This Act may be cited as the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act.