1. Establishment of a National Identity Management Commission

(1) There is hereby established a body to be known as the National Identity Manage-
ment Commission (in this Act referred to as "the Commission").

(2) The Commission-

(a) shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal; and
(b)  may sue and be sued in its corporate name.

(3) The Commission may hold, acquire and dispose of any property or interest in
property, movable or immovable for the purpose of its functions under this Act.

2. Membership ofthe Commission

(1) There is hereby established for the Commission a governing board
(in this Act referred to as "the Board") which shall consist of-

(a)        a part-time Chairman;

(b)       a representative each of-

(i)  the Independent National Electoral Commission;

(ii)   the National Health Insurance Scheme;

(iii)  the Federal Road Safety Commission;

(iv)    the Federal Inland Revenue Service;

(v)    the National Pension Commission;

(vi)    the Nigeria Police Force;

(vii)   the Nigeria Immigration Service;

(viii)  the Office of the National Security Adviser;

(ix)    the National Population Commission;

(x)    the Central Bank of Nigeria;

(xi)    the State Security Service;

(xii)  the Economic and Financial Crime Commission;
(xiii)   the Chief of Defence Staff;

(xiv)   the Corporate Affairs Commission;

(c)     three persons who are knowledgeable in Information Communication Technology or
identity management to represent the public interest; and

(d)     the Director-General of the Commission.

(2) The Chairman and members of the Commission shall be-

(a)        appointed by the President; and

(b)       citizens of Nigeria.

(3) Members of the Board other than the Director-General, shall be part-time members.

(4) The provisions of the First Schedule to this Act shall apply with respect to the
proceedings of the Board and the other matters mentioned therein.

[First Schedule.]

3. Tenure of Office of the Chairman and members of the Board

(1) The Chairman and members of the Board, other than ex officio members, shall
hold Office for a term of 4 years in the first instance and may be re-appointed for a fur-
ther term of 4 years and no more.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) of this section, a member of the
Board shall cease to hold Office as a member if-

(a)       he resigns his appointment as a member of the Board by a notice under his
hand, addressed to the President;

(b)       he becomes of unsound mind;

(c)        becomes bankrupt or makes a compromise with his creditors;

(d)       he is convicted of a felony or any of offence involving dishonesty or corruption;

(e)       he becomes incapable of carrying on the functions of his Office arising from
an infirmity of mind or body; or

(f)        the President is satisfied that it is not in the interest of the Commission or in
the interest of the public for the person to continue in Office and notifies the
member in writing to that effect.

(3) If a member of the Board dies or resigns or otherwise vacates his Office before
the expiration of the term for which he is appointed, a fit and proper person shall be
appointed for the remainder of the term of Office of the predecessor, so however that the
successor shall represent the same interest.

4. Emoluments, etc.

The Chairman and members of the Board shall be paid such emoluments, allowances
and incidental expenses as the President may, from time to time, approve.

PART II

Functions and Powers of the Commission

5.   Functions of the Commission

The Commission shall-

(a)        create, manage, maintain and operate the National Identity Database estab-
lished under section 14 of this Act including the harmonisation and integration
of existing identification databases in Government agencies and integrating
them into the National Identity Database;

(b)       carry out the registration of citizens of Nigeria into the National Identity Database;

(c)          carry out the registration of non-citizens of Nigeria who are lawfully resident in Nigeria;

(d)          issue a General Multi-purpose Identity Card to any person registered pursuant
to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section;

(e)        collate information obtained by the Commission in pursuance of its functions
under this Act and reproducing such information as may be required, from time to time;

(f)         assign a unique National Identification Number to any person registered pursuant to
paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and the National Identification
Number shall be incorporated into or made compatible with other existing
identity related databases or registers in respect of which information or data
relating to the registered person has been registered, documented or stored;

(g)         ensure the preservation, protection, sanctity and security (including cyber-
security) of any information or data collected, obtained, maintained or stored
in respect of the National Identity Database;

(h)         establish and maintain secured communication links with any existing relevant
identity related database or agency;

(i)       maintain secured communication links with end-users in any public or private
organisation, agency or body including card acceptance devices, Government service centres;

(j )      collaborate with relevant bodies and agencies in the setting of standards and
technical specifications for telecommunications links between organisations
and for the devices utilised for such communications established or maintained
pursuant to paragraphs (j) and (k) of this section;

(k)        respond to verification enquiries regarding the identification of individuals;

(l)         perform such other duties which, in the opinion of the Commission, are necessary or
expedient for the discharge of its functions under this Act;

(m)       enter into any form of agreement with any private or public sector based
agency or organisation for the development or establishment of the Identity
Management Solution or for the realisation of any of its functions;

(n)        research and monitor developments in the identity management sector;

(o)        carry out the registration of births and deaths in Nigeria; and

(p)        collaborate with relevant bodies and agencies in the setting of standards and
technical specifications for ICT links between organisations and for the devices
utilised for such communications established or maintained pursuant to
paragraphs (i) and (j) of this section.

6. Powers of the Commission

The Commission shall have the power to-

(a)    request for any information or data from any person on matters relating to its
functions under this Act;

(b)     fix the terms and conditions of service including remuneration of the employees of the Commission;

(c)    establish and operate administrative and monitoring offices in the States, Local
Government Areas and Area Councils;

(d)       monitor any matter that may affect the functions of the Commission; and

(e)       do such other things which by this Act or any other enactment are required or
permitted to be done by the Commission.

PART III

Staff of the Commission

7. The Director-General

(1) There shall be for the Commission, a Director-General, who shall-

(a)       be appointed by the President;

(b)       be the Chief Executive officer responsible for the day to day administration of
the Commission;

(c)       possess professional skills and 15 years cognate experience in any of the following
fields: information communication technology, engineering, management science, law, business
administration, economics or related fields.

(2) The Director-General shall, subject to the general control of the Board, be respon-
sible for-

(a)       the execution of the policies and decisions of the Board and its day to day operations and administration;

(b)       keeping proper records of proceedings of the Board; and

(c)        the direction and control of all other employees.

(3) The Director-General shall hold Office-

(a)       for a term of 4 years in the first instance and may be re-appointed for a further
term of 4 years and no more; and

(b)      on such terms and conditions as to emolument and otherwise as may be specified in his letter of appointment.

8. Appointment, dismissal, etc. of other staff of the Commission

(1) The Board shall have power to appoint for the Commission such other employees
as it may deem necessary for the efficient performance of its functions under this Act and
shall have power to pay persons so employed such remuneration (including allowances)
as the Commission may determine with the approval of the President.

(2) The power of the Commission under subsection (1) of this section shall include
the power to-

(a)              promote and control the staff of the Commission as may appear to the Commission
necessary or expedient; and

(b)              dismiss, terminate, consider the resignation or withdrawal of appointment and
exercise disciplinary control over the staff of the Commission, other than the
Director-General.

(3) The Board may delegate to the Director-General, generally or specifically, the
power to appoint such categories of staff of the Commission as the Commission may
from time to time specify.

9. Staff regulations

The Commission may, subject to the provisions of this Act, make staff regulations re-
lating generally to the conditions of service of its employees and without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing, such regulations may provide for-

(a)       the appointment, promotion and disciplinary control (including dismissal) of
employees of the Commission; and

(b)       appeals by such employees against dismissal or other disciplinary measures.

PART IV

Financial Provisions

10. Fund of the Commission

(1) The Commission shall establish and maintain a fund which shall consist of-

(a)       initial take-off grant from the Federal Government;

(b)       annual subvention from the Federal Government;

(c)       fees and other charges received by the Commission pursuant to this Act;

(d)      subject to section 11 of this Act, all other sums accruing to the Commission by
way of grants-in-aid, gifts, testamentary dispositions, endowments, bequests
and donations made to the Commission; and

(e)     such other sum as may accrue, from time to time, to the Commission.

(2) The Commission shall from time to time apply the proceeds of the fund established
under subsection (1) of this section-

(a)       to the administration cost of the Commission;

(b)      to the payment of the salaries, fees or other remuneration or allowances,
payable to the officers and employees of the Commission, so however that no
payment of any kind under this paragraph (except such as may be expressly
authorised under any other enactment or regulation in force) shall be made to
any person who is in receipt of emoluments from the Government of the Federation of Nigeria or of a State;

(c)       to reimbursing members of the Board or of any committee set up by the Board
for such expenses as may be expressly authorised by the Commission in accordance with the
rates approved by the Board;

(d)       for the maintenance of any property vested in the Commission; and

(e)       for and in connection with all or any of the functions of the Commission under this Act.

11. Power to accept gifts

(1) The Commission may accept any gift, grant or donation of land, money or other
property from any person or organisation upon such terms and conditions (acceptable to
the Commission), if any, as may be specified by the person or organisation making the
gift or donation.

(2) The Commission shall not accept any gift or donation if the conditions attached
thereto by the person or organisation making the gift or donation are inconsistent with the
functions of the Commission.

12. Annual estimate and accounts

(1) The Commission shall, not later than 30th September in each year, submit to the
President an estimate of its expenditure and income (including estimates of expected
payments into the fund of the Commission) during the next succeeding year.

(2) The Commission shall keep proper accounts in a form which conforms to accepted
accounting standards, and proper records in relation thereto and the accounts shall
be audited as provided in subsection (3) of this section.

(3) The accounts of the Commission shall be audited at the end of each calendar year
by auditors appointed from the list and in accordance with the guidelines supplied by the
Auditor-General for the Federation and the fees of the auditors and the expenses for the
audit generally shall be paid from the fund of the Commission.

13. Annual reports

The Commission shall, not later than six months after the end each year, submit to the
President, a report on the activities of the Commission and its administration during the
immediately preceding year and shall include in the report the audited accounts of the
Commission and the auditors' comments thereon.

PART V

Establishment of the National Identity Database, etc.

14. Establishment of a National Identity Database

(1) There is hereby established a National Identity Database (in this Act; referred to
as "the Database") which shall contain registered information or data relating to citizens
of Nigeria and non-Nigerian citizens who are registerable persons within the meaning of
section 16 of this Act.

(2) Any person in respect of whom an entry is made in the Database (in this Act referred
to as "a registered person") shall be identified using unique and unambiguous features such
as fingerprints and other biometric information.

15. Objectives of the Database

The objectives of the Database shall, be to-

(a)              use fingerprints and other biometric information as unique and unambiguous
features of identifying registerable persons;

(b)              enable the Commission, using the information contained in the Database to
issue a Multi-purpose Identity Card with a unique identification number to registerable persons;

(c)       enable the harmonisation of existing identity card schemes in Nigeria;

(d)       provide a medium for the identification, verification and authentication of
citizens of Nigeria and other registerable persons entitled to the Multi-purpose Identity Cards;

(e)       facilitate the provision of a secured and a reliable method for ascertaining,
obtaining, maintaining and preserving information and facts about citizens of Nigeria
and other registerable persons in accordance with the provisions of this Act,
and whenever same is necessary or adjudged necessary in the public interest,
providing such information to a designated and specified judicial or police authority; and

(f)        facilitate the provision of a convenient method for individuals who have been
issued with the Multi-purpose Identity Cards to provide proof of facts entered
about themselves in the Database to other persons who reasonably require such
proof.

16. Registrable persons

This Act shall apply to the following persons, who shall be registerable persons in re-
spect of whom entries shall be recorded in the Database, that is-

(a)       any person who is a citizen of Nigeria;

(b)       any person, whether or not he is a citizen of Nigeria, who is lawfully and per-
manently resident in Nigeria; and

(c)       any non-citizen of Nigeria who is lawfully resident in Nigeria for a period of
two years or more.

17. Contents
of the Database

(1) The information that may be recorded in the Database shall be limited to-

(a)     the information, the inclusion of which in the entry of a registered person is

authorised by the Second Schedule to this Act;

[Second Schedule.]

(b)     information of a technical nature for use in connection with the administration

of the Database;

(c)     information of a technical nature for use in connection with the administration
of arrangements made for purposes connected with the issue or cancellation of
Multi-purpose Identity Cards; and

(d)      information recorded in the Database in accordance with subsection (2) of this
section.

(2) Information about a registered person may be recorded in his entry in the Data-
base (whether or not it is authorised by the Second Schedule to this Act) if-

[Second Schedule.]

(a)     he has made an application to the Commission requesting the recording of the
information as part of his entry;

(b)       the information is of a description identified in regulations made by the Commission as a description of information that may be made the subject of such a request;

(c)        the Commission considers that it is both practicable and appropriate for such information to be recorded in accordance with the applicant's request; and

(d)       the applicant has paid any fees or charges prescribed by the Commission with respect to such applications.

(3) The Commission may by order approved by the Attorney-General of the Federation and published in the Gazette, modify the information for the time-being set out in the