4. Powers of the Council

(1) For the purpose of carrying out the functions of the Institute as specified in this
Act, the Council shall have power to--

(a)       determine the general policy of the Institute;

(b)       prescribe the fees to be charged for courses of institution and other services
offered by the Institute;

(c)        prescribe, monitor and regulate the organisation and management of the Institute;

(d)       establish such departments, divisions, schools, extramural departments and
other teaching and research units within the Institute as may, from time to
time, seem to the Council to be necessary or desirable;

(e)        institute lectureship and other posts and offices and to make appointments
thereto;

(f)        provide for the discipline of members of the Institute;

(g)       institute and award scholarships, exhibitions, awards and other forms of assistance;

(h)       arrange for the general welfare of members of the staff;

(i)         erect, provide, equip and maintain libraries, laboratories, lecture halls, halls of
residence, refectories, sports grounds, playing fields and other buildings or
structures necessary for the Institute; and

(j)         carry out such other activities as are necessary and expedient for the full dis-
charge of any of its functions under or pursuant to this Act.

(2) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Act, the Council shall not establish
additional educational units within the Institute without the prior approval of the Minister.

The Institute shall establish and maintain a library comprising such books, records,
reports and other publications as may be directed by the Council for the advancement of
knowledge in the areas of work undertaken by it, for research purposes and for other
purposes connected with the functions conferred on the Institute by or pursuant to this Act.

Staff of the Institute

(1) There shall be an officer of the Institute to be known as the Director.

(2) The Director shall be appointed by the President on the recommendation of the
Minister.

(3) The Director shall be the chief executive of the Institute and be responsible to the
Council for the day-to-day management of the affairs of the Institute.

(4) The Director shall hold office on such terms and conditions as may be specified
in his letter of appointment and on such other conditions as may be determined from time
to time by the Council with the concurrence of the President.

(1) There shall be appointed by the Council the following officers of the Institute,
that is-

(a)        the deputy director;

(b)        the registrar;

(c)        the heads of the various academic units;

(d)       the bursar; and

(e)        the librarian.

(2) The deputy director shall be the deputy chief executive of the Institute and shall
be responsible to the director.

(3) The heads of the various academic units shall be responsible to the director for
planning, organising, coordinating and conducting the courses and other studies under-
taken by the respective units of the Institute including collation and publication of course
materials and other written materials relating thereto.

(4) The registrar shall be responsible to the director for the day-to-day administration
of the Institute and in addition shall keep in safe custody all records of the Institute.

(5) The bursar shall be responsible to the director for the finances and accounts of the
Institute.

(6) The librarian shall be responsible to the director for the administration of the Institute's library.

(7) There may be appointed, from time to time, by the Council such other staff as
may be required for the purpose of the efficient performance of the functions conferred
on the Institute under this Act.

9. Pensions

(1) It is hereby declared that service in the Institute shall be public service for the
purposes of the Pensions Act and, accordingly, officers and other persons employed in
the Institute shall in respect of their service in the Institute be entitled to pensions, gratuities
and other retirement benefits as are prescribed thereunder, so however that nothing in
this Act shall prevent the appointment of a person to any office on terms which preclude
the grant of a pension or gratuity in respect of that office.

[Cap. P4.]

(2) For the purposes of the application of the provisions of the Pensions Act any
power exercisable thereunder by a Minister or other authority of the Government of the
Federation (not being the power to make regulations under section 23 thereof), is hereby
vested in and shall be exercisable by the Council and not by any other person or authority.

10. Establishment and membership of the Academic Board

(1) There is hereby established for the Institute, an Academic Board consisting of-

(a)       the director of the Institute as chairman;

(b)       the heads of units in charge of academic studies, research and library services;

(c)       one representative of the senior staff of the Institute; and

(d)       the registrar of the Institute, who shall serve as secretary to the Academic
Board.

(2) The Academic Board shall be responsible for-

(a)      the direction and management of all academic matters of the Institute including
prescribing appropriate admission requirements for the programmes of the
Institute in line with the minimum standards that may be set by an accrediting
authority, recommending to the Council the types of academic distinctions,
prizes, scholarships, certificates and diplomas to be awarded;

(b)        conducting prescribed examinations and assessments thereof;

(c)        issuing codes of conduct in halls of residence; and

(d)        discharging any other functions as may be delegated to it by the Council.

Financial provisions

11. Establishment of the fund of the Institute

(I) The Institute shall establish and maintain a fund which shall be applied towards
the promotion of the objectives specified in this Act.

(2) There shall be paid and credited to the fund established pursuant to subsection (I)
of this sectiolt-
(a)        such sums as may be provided by the Government of the Federation for payment into the fund;

(b)        any fees charged for services rendered by the Institute; and

(c)        proceeds from sales of materials such as journals, workshops or seminar proceedings and
research exhibits insofar as patent rights are vested in the Institute.

12. Power to accept gifts

(I) The Institute may accept gifts of land, money or other property upon such terms
and conditions, if any, as may be specified by the person or organisation making the gift.

(2) The Institute shall not accept any gift if the conditions attached by the person or
organisation making the gift to the acceptance thereof are inconsistent with the functions
of the Institute.

13. Borrowing power, etc.

(I) The Council may, with the consent or in accordance with any general direction
given by the President, borrow by way of loan or overdraft from a source approved by the
President, such specified amount of money as may be required by the Institute for meeting
its obligations and discharging its functions under this Act.

(2) The Council may, subject to the provisions of this Act and the conditions of any
trust created in respect of any property, invest all or any of its funds with the like consent
or general authority as are mentioned in subsection (I) of this section.

(3) The Council may invest any surplus funds of the Institute in securities prescribed
by the Trustee Investments Act or such other securities as may, from time to time, be
approved by the Minister.

[Cap. T22.]

(4) Subject to the provisions of the Land Use Act, and any special or general direction
which the Minister may give in that behalf, the Council may acquire or lease any
land required for its purposes under this Act.

[Cap. L5.]

14. Annual estimates, accounts and audit

(1) The Council shall cause to be prepared, not later than six months before the end
of each year or such other time as the Minister may direct, an estimate of the expenditure
and income of the Institute during the next succeeding year, and when prepared they shall
be submitted through the Minister for approval by the President.

(2) The Council shall cause to be kept proper accounts and proper records in relation
thereto and when certified by the Council such accounts shall be audited as provided in
subsection (3) of this section.

(3) The accounts of the Institute shall be audited as soon as may be after the end of
each year by auditors appointed from the list of auditors and in accordance with the
guidelines issued by the Auditor-General for the Federation and the fees of the auditors
and the expenses for the audit generally shall be paid from the funds of the Institute.

Miscellaneous and supplementary provisions

15. An
nual reports

The Council shall, not later than six months after the end of each year submit, through
the Minister, to the President a report on the activities of the Institute and its administration
during the immediately preceding year and shall include in such report the audited
accounts of the Institute and the auditor's comments thereon.

16. Staff regulations

(1) The Institute may, subject to the provisions of this Act, make staff regulations relating
generally to the conditions of service of the employees of the Institute and, without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, such regulations may provide for-

(a)       the appointment, promotion and disciplinary control (including dismissal) of
employees of the Institute; and
(b)       appeals by such employees against dismissal or other disciplinary measures,
and until such regulations are made, any instrument relating to the conditions of service
of officers in the civil service of the Federation shall be applicable with such modifications
as may be necessary, to the employees of the Institute.

(2) Staff regulations made under subsection (1) of this section shall not have effect
until approved by the Minister and when so approved they need not be published in the
Gazette but the Council shall cause them to be brought to the notice of all affected persons
in such manner as it may, from time to time, determine.

17. Disc
ipline of students

(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, where it appears to the Director that any
student of the Institute has been found guilty of misconduct, the Director may, without
prejudice to any other disciplinary powers conferred on him by rules, direct-

(a)              that the student shall not, during such period as may be specified in the direction,
participate in such activities of the Institute as may be so specified; or

(b)              that the activities of the student shall, during such period as may be specified
in the direction, be restricted in such manner as may be so specified; or

(c)        that the student be rusticated for such period as may be specified in the direction; or

(d)        that the student be expelled from the Institute.

(2) Where a direction is given under subsection (I) of this section in respect of any
student, the student may, within the prescribed period and in the prescribed manner,
appeal from the direction to the Council, and where such an appeal is brought, the Council
shall, after causing such inquiry to be made in the matter as the Council considers just,
either confirm or set aside the direction or modify it in such manner as the Council thinks
fit.

(3) The fact that an appeal from a direction is brought in pursuance of the foregoing
subsection shall not affect the operation of the direction while the appeal is pending.

18. Interpretation

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires--

"Council" means the National Institute for Sports Governing Council constituted under section 2 of this Act;

"chairman" means the chairman of the Council;

"director" means the director of the Institute;

"member" includes the chairman of the Council.

19. Short title

This Act may be cited as the National Institute for Sports Act.