1. Establishment of the National Broadcasting Commission

There is hereby established a Commission to be known as the National Broadcasting
Commission (in this Act referred to as "the Commission") which shall be a body corpo-
rate with perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in its corpo-
rate name.

2. Powers of the Commission

(1) The Commission shall have responsibility of--

(a)        advising the Federal Government generally on the implementation of the Na-
tional Mass Communication Policy with particular reference to broadcasting;

(b)        receiving, processing and considering applications for the establishment, own-
ership or operation of radio and television stations including-

[1999 No. 55.]

(i)    cable television services, direct satellite broadcast and any other me-
dium of broadcasting;

(ii)    radio and television stations owned, established or operated by the Fed-
eral, State or local government;

(c)       recommending applications through the Minister to the President, for the grant of radio and television licences;

(d)      regulating and controlling the broadcasting industry;

(e)      undertaking research and development in the broadcasting industry;

(f)         receiving, considering and investigating complaints from individuals and bodies corporate or incorporate regarding the contents of a broadcast and the conduct of a broadcasting station;

(g)        upholding the principles of equity and fairness in broadcasting;

(h)        establishing and disseminating a national broadcasting code and setting standards with regard to the contents and quality of materials for broadcast;

(i)         promoting Nigerian indigenous cultures, moral and community life through broadcasting;

(j)         promoting authenticated radio and television audience measurements and penetration;

(k)        initiating and harmonising Government policies on trans-border direct transmission and reception in Nigeria;

(l)         regulating ethical standards and technical excellence in public, private and commercial broadcast stations in Nigeria;

(m)       monitoring broadcasting for harmful emission, interference and illegal broadcasting;

(n)        determining and applying sanctions including revocation of licences of defaulting stations which do not operate in accordance with the broadcast code and in the public interest;

(o)         approving the transmitter power, the location of stations, areas of coverage as well as regulate types of broadcast equipment to be used;

(p)         ensuring qualitative manpower development in the broadcasting industry by accrediting curricula and programmes for all tertiary training institutions that offer Mass Communication in relation to broadcasting;

[1999 No. 55.]

(q)        intervening and arbitrating in conflicts in the broadcasting industry;

[1999 No. 55.]

(r)         ensuring strict adherence to the national laws, rules and regulations relating to

the participation of foreign capital in relation to local capital in broadcasting;
[1999 No. 55.]

(s)         serving as national consultants on any legislative or regulatory issues on the broadcasting industry;

[1999 No. 55.]

(t)         guaranteeing and ensuring the liberty and protection of the broadcasting industry with due respect to the law; and

(u)        carrying out such other activities as are necessary or expedient for the full discharge of all or any of the functions conferred on it under or pursuant to this Act.

(2) No person shall operate or use any apparatus or premises for the transmission of
sound or vision by cable, television, radio, satellite or any other medium of broadcast
from anywhere in Nigeria except under and in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

3. Composition of the Commission

(1) The Commission shall consist of-

(a)          a chairman;

(b)           ten other members as may be approved to represent the following interests, that is-

(i)      law;

(ii)       business;
(iii)     culture;
(iv)      education;

(v)       social science;
(vi)      broadcasting;
(vii)     public affairs;

(viii)    engineering;

(ix)       State Security Service;

(x)        the Federal Ministry of Information and National Orientation; and

(c)        the Director-General of the Commission.

[1999 No. 55.]

(2) The chairman and other members of the Commission shall be persons of proven
integrity, experience and specialised knowledge in the broadcasting industry or who by
reason of their professional or business attainment are on the recommendation of the
Minister and with the approval of the President capable of making useful contribution to
the work of the Commission.

[1999 No. 55]

(3) The chairman and other members of the Commission shall be citizens of Nigeria
who shall be appointed by the President on the recommendation of the Minister.

[1999 No. 55]

(4) The chairman and other members of the Commission shall be part-time members.
(5) The supplementary provisions contained in the First Schedule to this Act shall
have effect with respect to the proceedings of the Commission and the other matters con-
tained therein.

[First Schedule.]

4. Tenure of office, etc.

(l) The chairman and other members of the Commission shall hold office for three
years renewable for one further period of three years only.

(2) The chairman or a member of the Commission may resign his appointment at any
lime by notice in writing under his hand addressed to the President.

(3) If a member of the Commission dies or resigns or otherwise vacates his office be-
fore the expiry of the term for which he is appointed, a fit and proper person shall be ap-

pointed for the remainder of the term of office of the predecessor, so however that the
successor shall represent the same interest and shall be appointed by the President.

(4) A member of the Commission may be removed from office by the President if he
is satisfied that it is not in the interest of the Commission or the interest of the public that
the member should continue in office.

Staff of the Commission

5. Director-General and other staff of the Commission

(1) There shall be appointed for the Commission, a Director-General who shall be the
chief executive of the Commission.

(2) The Director-General shall be appointed by the President on the recommendation
of the Minister.

(3) The Director-General shall be a person with wide knowledge and experience in
broadcasting.

(4) The Director-General shall be responsible for the execution of the policies of the
Commission and its day-to-day administration.

(5) The Director-General shall hold office in the first instance for a period of five
years and shall be eligible for re-appointment for such further periods as the President
may, from time to time, determine.

(6) Subject to this section, the Director-General shall hold office on such terms as to
emolument and otherwise as may be specified in his letter of appointment and as may,
from time to time, be approved by the President.

(7) The Commission shall appoint a secretary to the Commission who shall keep rec-
ords, conduct correspondence of the Commission and carry out and perform such other
duties as the Commission or the Director-General may, from time to time, direct.

(8) The Commission may appoint such other employees to assist the Director-General
in the exercise of his functions under this Act.

6. Power of the Minister to give directives

Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Minister may give the Commission directives
of a general character relating generally to particular matters with regard to the exercise
by the Commission of its functions under this Act and it shall be the duty of the Commis-
sion to comply with such directives.

7. Conditions of service

The Commission shall develop and submit to the President appropriate conditions of
service covering remuneration, fringe benefits, pension scheme and other benefits for its
employees.

8. Service in the Commission to be pensionable

persons employed in the Commission shall in respect of their service in the Commission
be entitled to pensions, gratuities and other retirement benefits as are enjoyed by persons
holding equivalent grades in the civil service of the Federation, so however that nothing
in this Act shall prevent the appointment of a person to any office on terms which pre-
clude the grant of pension and gratuity in respect of that office.

[Cap. P4.]

(2) For the purposes of the application of the provisions of the Pensions Act, any
power exercisable thereunder by a Minister or other authority of the Government of the
Federation, other than the power to make regulations under section 23 thereof, is hereby
vested in and shall be exercisable by the Commission and not by any other person or
authority.

9. Power of the Commission to grant licences

(1) The Commission shall, in the consideration of an application or a licence under
this Act, be satisfied that the applicant-

(a)       is a body corporate registered under the Companies and Allied Matters Act or a station owned, established or operated by the Federal, State or local government;

[Cap. C20.]

(b)       can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commission that he is not applying on behalf of any foreign interest;

(c)        can comply with the objectives of the National Mass Communication Policy as is applicable to the electronic media, that is, radio and television;

(d)       can give an undertaking that the licensed station shall be used to promote national interest, unity and cohesion and that it shall not be used to offend the religious

sensibilities or promote ethnicity, sectionalism, hatred and disaffection among the peoples of Nigeria.

(2) The grant of a licence by the Commission under this Act shall be subject to avail-
ability of broadcast frequencies.

(3) Compliance with the requirements specified in subsection (1) of this section shall
not entitle an applicant to the grant of a licence but the grant of a licence by the Commis-
sion shall not be unreasonably withheld.

(4) In determining the grant of a licence the Commission shall consider the following,

that is-

(a)        the structure of shareholding in the broadcasting organisation;

(b)       the number of shareholding in other media establishments;

(c)       the distribution of those stations and establishments as between urban, rural, commercial or other categorisation.

(5) It shall be illegal for any person to have controlling shares in more than two of
each of the broadcast sectors of transmission.

[1999 No. 55.]

(6) Any broadcast station transmitting from Nigeria before the commencement of this
Act shall be deemed to have been licensed under this Act and, accordingly, shall be sub-
ject to the provisions of this Act.

10. Persons disqualified from the grant of a licence

The Commission shall not grant a licence to-

(a)           a religious organisation; or

(b)           a political party.

11. Method of application for a licence

A request by a person for authority to own, establish or operate a radio, sound, televi-
sion, cable or satellite station shall be by way of an application for a licence addressed to
the Director-General of the Commission and in the form prescribed in the Second Sched-
ule to this Act.

[Second Schedule.]

12. Terms and conditions for a licence

The grant of licence shall be subject to the terms and conditions set out in the Third