6. General directions

(I) The Minister may give to the Board directives of a general or of a special nature
with regard to the exercise of the functions of the Corporation; and as the case may require,
it shall be the duty of the Chairman, the Board and the Managing Director to comply
with the directives, unless matters of policy are in dispute and subsection (2) of this section applies.

(2) In the application of subsection (1) of this section, where the Minister intends to
initiate a policy affecting the exercise of the functions of the Corporation, he shall consult
with the chairman, and in the event of disagreement between the Minister and the chairman
over the implementation of that policy, the policy and any directive issued in that
respect, shall stand suspended, so however that if any part of the policy so in dispute is
severable from any other aspects of the policy not in dispute, the policy or the directive
issued shall be suspended only in respect of the part in dispute; and thereafter the policy,
or the part in dispute so suspended shall, upon its being referred by the Minister to the
President, be affirmed, modified, or rejected by the President, and the President may give
such directions thereon as he thinks fit.

(1) Without prejudice to subsections (1) and (2) of section 1 of this Act, and subject
as hereinafter in this Act provided, the Corporation shall be deemed to be a company
registered under the Insurance Act.

[Cap. 117.]

(2) Accordingly, and in so far as the provisions of the Insurance Act are not inconsistent
with those of this Act, the Corporation shall comply with the requirements of the
Act aforesaid, as if the Corporation were a company so registered, and that Act shall, in
relation to the Corporation, have effect and be construed accordingly.

(1) It shall be the duty of every registered insurer to produce to any person authorised
by the Registrar of Insurance, on production by that person, if so required, of a duly
authenticated document showing his authority, such books of accounts, records and
documents, and to supply copies of and extracts from such books, records and documents
and to furnish such other information, as may reasonably be required for purposes of this
Act.

(2) If any person fails to comply with the requirements of this section, he shall be
guilty of an offence under this Act.

General financial provisions

(1) The share capital of the Corporation shall, subject to subsection (2) of this section,
be N2 million divided into 20,000 shares ofNlOO each, and the said shares shall, on
the commencement of this Act, be deemed to be subscribed for, issued, and called up in
full; and payment in respect of such call up shall be made by the holder of the shares at
such times and in such manner as the President may direct.

(2) The Minister may, from time to time, with the approval of the President, increase
the share capital of the Corporation; and, as soon as may be after any such increase, the
Board may make calls for the additional shares on such terms and conditions as the Board
may determine.

(3) All the shares in the Corporation shall be taken up by the Federal Government,
and subject to subsections (I) and (2) of this section, shall be paid for by that Government.

(4) The Accountant-General of the Federation shall, when authorised under this subsection
by the Minister of Finance, charge to and issue out of the Consolidated Revenue
Fund of the Federation (in this Act referred to as "the Consolidated Revenue Fund") any
sum required for making payment for shares in the Corporation taken up by the Federal
Government.

10.
Liability of shareholder limited

The liability of any holder of shares in the Corporation, shall be limited to the amount,
if any, unpaid on the shares held by the holder.

11.
Declaration of dividend

No dividend shall be declared by the Board unless-

(a)       at the time of the declaration, the amount in the general reserve fund of the
Corporation exceeds the amount of N 100 million;

(b)       such dividend has been earned and has been approved by the Minister.

12. Loan of two hundred thousand naira to the Corporation

(I) The initial expenses and working capital of the Corporation shall be provided out
of a loan to be granted to the Corporation by the Federal Government; and for that purpose,
where the Minister of Finance is satisfied as to the amount he may authorise an
advance by way of loan not exceeding N200,000 from the Contingency Fund of the Federation
or such other fund as the Minister aforesaid may direct and the loan when so
made, shall bear interest at such rate as the Minister aforesaid may approve or require.

(2) The Accountant-General of the Federation shall, as directed by the Minister of
Finance under this section, issue out of the relevant fund of the Federation sums necessary
for making the loan of N200,OOO to the Corporation under subsection (I) of this
section.

13.
Repayment of loan of two hundred thousand naira

(I) The Corporation shall at such times and in such manner as the Minister of Finance
with the approval of the President may direct, repay the loan made to the Corporation
under section 12 of this Act, together with interest at the rate prescribed.

(2) Any sums received by way of repayment of the said loan or of interest thereon,
shall be paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund.

14.
Borrowing powers

Subject to any restriction imposed by this Act as to the amount thereof, the Corporation
may, with the consent of the Minister given either generally or in any particular case,
borrow by way of temporary accommodation from the Federal Government such sums as
the Corporation may require in the exercise of its functions under this Act.

15. Limit on borr
owing

(1) Subject to the following provisions of this section, the Minister may by order direct that the
aggregate of the amount outstanding in respect of the principal of any monies
borrowed by the Corporation, shall not at any time exceed NlOO,OOO; and while such an
order is in force that aggregate amount shall not, except with the approval of the President,
exceed the sum so specified.

(2) Nothing in this section shall prevent the Corporation from borrowing in excess of
any limit (if any) imposed by virtue of subsection (1) of this section, for the purpose of
paying off any loan.

(3) A person lending money to the Corporation shall not be bound to enquire whether
the borrowing is within the power of the Corporation.

16. General reserve fund

Without prejudice to the provisions of any enactment requiring the establishment of
technical reserves by a registered insurer, the Corporation shall establish and maintain a
general reserve fund out of the profits of the Corporation for meeting contingencies, depreciation
of assets, for the liquidation of any debt or liability of the Corporation and for
such other purposes as the Board may consider necessary for the proper functioning of
the Corporation under this Act.

17. Application of profits

The profits of the Corporation in any financial year shall be applied in such manner as
the Board may, with the approval of the Minister direct, and dividends on the shares of
the Federal Government in the Corporation shall be paid into the Consolidated Revenue
Fund.

Provisions relating to staff

18. Officers and servants of the Corporation, etc.

(1) Subject to sections 19 and 20 of-this Act, there shall be in the employ of the Corporation,
such number of officers and servants as may appear expedient and necessary to
the Board, for the proper and efficient conduct of the business and functions of the Corporation.

(2) Unless otherwise precluded by this Act, the Corporation may exercise any of the
powers and perform any of the functions and duties conferred and imposed on the
Corporation by this Act through or by any of its officers and servants duly authorised by the
Corporation in that behalf.

19. Managing director of the Corporation

(l) There shall be an officer of the Corporation, to be known as the managing director,
who shall be appointed by the Minister, subject to the approval of the President and
the person so appointed shall-

(a)        be the holder of a recognised qualification in the field of insurance and shall
have at least ten years' experience in insurance business;

(b)        not, while he is the holder of that office, hold any directorship in any corporation,
company or concern other than the Corporation.

(2) The managing director shall be the chief executive of the Corporation and shall be
responsible for the general administration of the Corporation, the execution of the policy
of the Corporation and the transaction of its day-to-day business.

20. Secretary of the Corporation

(I) There shall be appointed by the Minister, subject to the approval of the President,
an officer of the Corporation to be known as the secretary.

(2) The secretary shall be responsible to the managing director, as the chief executive
officer of the Corporation, and under his direction and control, the secretary shall carry
out the day-to-day administration of the affairs of the Corporation; and without prejudice
to the generality of the foregoing provisions of this subsection, the secretary shall be
responsible for the following matters, that is to say-

(a)        making arrangements for meetings of the Board;

(b)        preparing the agenda and the minutes of such meetings;

(c)        conveying decisions of the Board to members of the Board;

(d)        arranging for payment of fees and allowances, of meetings and all other
matters affecting members of the Board,and he shall perform all other duties
affecting the Corporation as may be specifically assigned to him by the managing director.

21. Retirement benefit fnnd for employees of the Corporation

(I) The Board shall make rules for the establishment and maintenance of a fund to be
known as the "National Insurance Corporation of Nigeria Pension and Welfare Fund", for
providing pensions to employees of the Corporation, and in the case of injuries or death
of such employees, for providing benefits to them or their dependants.

(2) Provisions shall be made by the rules for the payment of contributions to the said
fund by the Corporation or the employees of the Corporation, or both, as the Minister
may direct or require.

(3) Rules made for the purpose of this section shall not have effect, until approved by
the Minister.

Accounts, returns and information

22. Accounts and audit

(1) The Corporation shall keep proper accounts and proper records in relation thereto
and shall, in respect of each financial year, prepare a balance sheet, a profit and loss
account, revenue accounts, and other statements and abstracts in accordance with the
requirements of the Insurance Act.

[Cap. 117.

(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by auditors appointed from the
list of auditors and in accordance with the guidelines supplied by the Auditor-General for
the Federation.

(3) The auditors shall, on completion of the audits of the accounts of the Corporation
for each financial year, prepare and submit to the Board, the following two reports, that is
to say-

(a)              a report (elsewhere in this Act referred to as "the general report"), which shall
set out general observations and recommendations of the auditors, on the
financial affairs of the Corporation for that year and on any important matters
which the auditors may consider necessary, to bring to the knowledge of the
general public; and

(b)              a detailed report (elsewhere in this Act referred to as "the full report"), which
shall set out detailed observations and recommendations of the auditors on all
aspects of the operations of the Corporation for that year.

23. Power of President to give directions to auditors, etc.

The President may, in respect of any particular audit under this Act, if of opinion that
it is in the public interest so to do, from time to time give directions-

(a)              to the auditors of the Corporation, requiring them to carry out any examination
which would enable them to report to the President upon the adequacy of any
measures taken by the Corporation for the protection of the interests of the
shareholders, policy holders, and other creditors of the Corporation, or upon
the sufficiency of procedure in auditing the financial affairs of the Corporation;

(b)              to the said auditors requiring them to enlarge, within the requirements of their
directions, the scope of the audit of the financial affairs of the Corporation or
to adopt a different procedure in the audit;

(c)        to the said auditors or any other persons requiring them jointly or severally to
carry out such other examinations as may be mentioned in the directions,
and it shall be the duty of the auditors or other persons directed as aforesaid, to comply
with those directions and to report to the Board accordingly.

24. Returns by the Corporation

(1) The Corporation shall, within six months after the close of each financial year,
furnish to the Minister and to the Registrar of Insurance-

(a)              a copy of the audited accounts of the Corporation and of the statements and
abstracts mentioned in section 22 of this Act;

(b)              a copy of the general report and of the full report of the auditors mentioned in
the said section 22;

(c)        a detailed report of the Board on the state of affairs of the Corporation for that
financial year, including a statement of the amount out of the profits which the
Board proposes to carry to the general reserve fund of the Corporation; and of
the amount which the Board recommends should be paid by way of dividend,
and the Minister shall, as soon as may be after receipt thereof, submit to the President a
copy of each of the documents furnished to him under this subsection.

(2) As soon as may be after the Corporation has complied with the requirements of
subsection (1) of this section, the Board shall cause the audited accounts of the Corporation
and the general report aforesaid to be published in the Federal Gazette.

25. Power to call for information from the Corporation

(1) An officer of the Federal Ministry of Commerce may, if authorised by the Minister in that
behalf, give notice in writing under this section to the Corporation, requiring
the Corporation to provide the Minister with such information relating to the property,
financial position, activities or proposed activities of the Corporation as may be required
by the notice.

(2) The Corporation shall within a reasonable time after a notice is given to it under
subsection (I) of this section, provide the Minister with the information required thereby,
but if a time is prescribed by the notice, the Corporation shall provide the information
within the time so prescribed.

Legal proceedings

26. Limitation of suits against the Corporation, etc.

(I) Notwithstanding anything in any other enactment, no suit against the Corporation,
a director or any officer or servant of the Corporation for any act done in pursuance or
execution or intended execution of any enactment or law, or of any public duties or
authority, or in respect of any alleged neglect or default in the execution of such enactment
or law, duties or authority, shall lie or be instituted in any court, unless it is commenced
twelve months next after the act, neglect or default complained of or, in the continuance
of damage or injury, within twelve months next after the ceasing thereof.

(2) No suit shall be commenced against the Corporation before the expiration of a period
of one month after written notice of intention to commence the suit shall have been
served upon the Corporation by the intending plaintiff or his agent; and the notice shall
clearly and explicitly state the cause of action, the particulars of the claim, the name and
place of abode of the intending plaintiff and the relief which he claims.

27. Service of documents

The notice referred to in section 26 (2) of this Act and any summons, notice or other
document required or authorised to be served upon the Corporation under the provisions
of this Act or any other enactment or law may be served by delivering the same to the
chairman or the managing director of the Corporation, or by sending it by registered post
addressed to the managing director at the principal office of the Corporation.

28. Restriction on execution against the property of the Corporation

In any action or suit against the Corporation, no execution or attachment or process in
the nature thereof, shall be issued against the Corporation, but any sums of money which
may by the judgment of the court be awarded against the Corporation shall, subject to any
directions given by the court where notice of appeal has been given by the Corporation in
respect of the said judgment, be paid by the Corporation from the general reserve fund of
the Corporation.

29. Indemnity of officers and servants of the Corporation

Every director, agent, auditor, secretary, and other officer or servant for the time being
of the Corporation shall be indemnified out of the assets of the Corporation against
any liability incurred by him in defending any proceedings, whether civil or criminal, in
which judgment is given in his favour, or in which he is acquitted, if any such proceeding
is brought against him in his capacity as such director, agent, auditor, secretary or other
officer or servant as aforesaid.

Miscellaneous and general

30. False information

If any person in giving any information for the purposes of this Act or any regulation
thereunder, makes any statement which he knows to be false in a material particular, or
recklessly makes any statement which is false in a material particular, he shall be guilty
of an offence and liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five
years or to a fine of N 1,000 or to both such imprisonment and fine.

31. Offences by body corporate

(I) Where an offence under this Act committed by any body corporate, including a
registered insurer, is proved to have been committed with the consent or connivance of,
or to be attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary or
other similar officer of the body corporate, or any person who was purporting to act in
any such capacity, he, as well as the body corporate, shall be guilty of that offence and
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

(2) Where the affairs of a body corporate established under any enactment are
managed by its members, with or without directors, the expression "director" as used in
subsection (1) of this section, shall in proper case include any such member.

32. Penalty for offences for which no other penalty is provided

Any person who is guilty of an offence under this Act, or who contravenes or fails to
comply with any provision of this Act, for which no other penalty is specifically provided,
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding NS,OOO and, if the default in
respect of which he is so convicted is continued after the conviction, he shall be liable to
a further sum of NSO for each and every day during which the contravention or default
continues and liability for such further sum shall commence from the day following the
conviction, or from such day thereafter as the court may order.

33. Application of Companies and Allied Matters Act

The Minister may, from time to time, by order published in the Federal Gazette, apply
to the Corporation any of the provisions of the Companies and Allied Matters Act not
inconsistent with this Act, with any necessary modifications as he may prescribe, but
otherwise nothing in the Companies and Allied Matters Act or any Act thereby repealed,
shall apply to the Corporation.

[Cap. C20.]

34. Winding up of the Corporation

The Corporation shall not be wound up, except by or under the authority of an Act.

35. Regulations

Without prejudice to any other power of the Minister under this Act to make regulations for
any special purposes, regulations may be made by the Minister generally for the
purposes of this Act.

36. Power of Board to make rules and bye-laws

(I) The Board may make rules or bye-laws, not inconsistent with this Act or any
regulations made thereunder, for the general and efficient conduct of the business of the
Corporation as an insurer, and without prejudice to the generality of the power so coferred,
rules or bye-laws may-

(a)        prescribe the manner and conditions subject to which the Corporation may
enter into reinsurance contracts;

(b)        prescribe premium and commission rates, terms and conditions, to be offered
by the Corporation in connection with insurance or reinsurance business.

(2) Where rules or bye-laws are made pursuant to subsection (I) of this section, it
shall not be necessary for their validity to cause them to be published in the Federal
Gazette, but the Board shall bring them to the notice of such interested persons (including
officers and servants of the Corporation) as the Board may, from time to time, determine.

37. Interpretation

In this Act, except where the context otherwise requires, the following expressions
have the meanings hereby respectively assigned to them, that is to say-

"Board" has the meaning assigned to it in section 2 of this Act;

"body corporate" includes an association of underwriters;

"chairman" means the chairman of the Board;

"Consolidated Revenue Fund" means the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the Federation;

"Corporation" means the National Insurance Corporation of Nigeria, established under section I of this Act;

"director", in relation to the Corporation, means a member of the Board;

"financial year", in relation to the Corporation, means the period of twelve months
ending with 31 December in any year and, where appropriate, includes any lesser period
ending with that date;

"general reserve fund of the Corporation" means the fund established and maintained by
the Corporation pursuant to section 16 of this Act;

"Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibility for matters relating to
trade;

"Minister of Finance" means the Minister charged with responsibility for finance;

"managing director" means the managing director of the Corporation;

"policy" in relation to insurance includes every writing whereby any contract of in-
surance is made or agreed to be made;

"Registrar of Insurance" means the Registrar of Insurance under the Insurance Act;
[Cap. 117.]

"registered insurer" means, without prejudice to section 7 of this Act, any person
(other than the Corporation), registered as an insurer under the Insurance Act.

38. Short title

This Act may be cited as the National Insurance Corporation of Nigeria Act.