2. Membership and tenure of office
(1) The Commission shall consist of a chairman to be appointed by the President on
the recommendation of the Minister and the following other members, that is -
(a) five persons to be appointed by the President on the recommendation of the
Minister being persons who by reason of their ability, experience or special-
ised knowledge in-
(i) education;
(ii) culture;
(iii) natural history;
(iv) science and technology; and
(v) sciences,
are capable of making useful contribution to the work of the Commission;
(b) nine representatives of the States to be appointed in rotation, so however that
no State shall have more than one representative at anyone time; and
(c) the Director-General.
(2) The Minister may appoint one of the members of the Commission referred to in
paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of this section to be the deputy chairman of the Commis -
sion for such period as the Minister may determine, so however that deputy chairman
who ceases to be a member shall also cease to be deputy chairman.
(3) Subject to subsection (4) of this section, a person appointed as a member of the
Commission (not being an ex-officio member) shall hold office for three years and shall
be eligible for re-appointment for one further period of three years.

-- 2 of 28 --

(4) The appointing authority may terminate the appointment of a member (not being
an ex-officio member) on grounds of misbehaviour or inability to discharge the duties of
his office by reason of physical or mental incapacity.
(5) The supplementary provisions contained in the First Schedule to this Act shall
have effect with respect to the proceedings of the Commission and other matters therein
mentioned.
[First Schedule.]
3. Functions of the Commission
( I) The functions of the Commission shall be-
(a) to administer national museums, antiquities and monuments;
(b) to establish and maintain national museums and other outlets for or in connec-
tion with, but not restricted only to the following, that is -
(i) antiquities;
(ii) science and technology;
(iii) warfare;
(iv) African, Black and other antiquities;
( v) arts and era fts;
(vi) architecture;
(vii) natural history; and
(viii) educational services;
(c) to make recommendations to any State Government or other person or author-
ity concerning the establishment and management of museums and the preser-
vation of antiquities and monuments, not being national museums or antiqui-
ties and monuments declared to be national antiquities and monuments; and
(d) to approve any museum, which is privately established and maintained, for the
purposes of this Act and at any time withdraw such approval.
(2) For the purposes of the proper discharge of its functions under this Act, the
Commission-
(a) shall have power to acquire and dispose of any interests in land or other prop-
erty; and
(b) may by agreement of the owner of any antiquity undertake or make arrange-
ments for the maintenance of any such antiquity on such terms and conditions
as may be approved by the Commission.
4. Declaration of national museums
(1) The museums specified in the Second Schedule to this Act are hereby declared to
be national museums for the purposes of this Act.
[Second Schedule.]
(2) The Minister may, as and when national museums are declared as prescribed by
law, amend the Second Schedule to this Act accordingly.
Staff of the Commission
5. Director-General of the Commission
(1) There shall be an officer of the Commission to be known as the Director-General
who shall be appointed by the President on the nomination of the Commission.
(2) The Director-General shall be the chief executive of the Commission and shall
hold office on such terms and conditions as may be specified in his letter of appointment
or on such other terms and conditions as may be determined from time to time.
6. Appointment of Secretary, Directors and other staff of the Commission
(1) There shall be appointed by the Commission the following officers, that is -
(a) an Administrative Secretary;

-- 3 of 28 --

(b) a Director of Museums and Monuments; and
(c) a Director of Research and Training.
(2) The Administrative Secretary shall be responsible to the Director-General for the
day-to-day administration and for the finances of the Commission.
(3) The Director of Museums and Monuments shall be responsible to the Director-
General for the upkeep and general maintenance of museums and monuments under the
control or management of the Commission, and the collection of stock for such museums
and identification of antiquities to be declared as monuments.
(4) The Director of Research and Training shall be responsible to the Director-
General for co-ordinating research staff and research projects of the Commission and the
collation and publication of research materials and for training of technical staff of the
Commission and from elsewhere.
(5) There may be appointed from time to time by the Commission such other staff as
may be required for the purposes of the efficient performance of the functions conferred
on the Commission under or pursuant to this Act.
7. Service in the Commission to be pensionable
(l) Notwithstanding the provisions of the Pensions Act, it is hereby declared that
service in the Commission shall be approved service for the purpose of that Act and, ac-
cordingly, the employees of the Commission shall in respect of their service in the Com-
mission be entitled to such pensions, gratuities and other retirement benefits as are en-
joyed by persons holding equivalent grades in the public service of the Federation, so
however that nothing in this section shall prevent the appointment of a person to any of-
fice in the Commission on the terms which preclude the grant of a pension, gratuity of
other retirement benefits in respect of that office.
[Cap. P4.]
(2) For the purpose of the application of the provisions of the Pensions Act in accor-
dance with this section-
(a) sections 3 (1) (a) and 21 of that Act shall have effect as if references therein to
the Minister are references to the Commission; and
(b) the power under sections 3 (1) (b) and 4 (2) of that Act shall be exercisable by
the Commission and not by any other authority.
Financial provisions
8. Establishment of fund by the Commission
(1) The Commission shall establish and maintain a fund which shall be applied to-
wards the promotion of the objectives specified in this Act.
(2) There shall be paid and credited to the fund established pursuant to subsection (1)
of this section-
(a) such sums as may be provided in each financial year to the Commission by the
Federal Government;
(b) fees charged for services rendered by the Commission; and
(c) subject to section 9 (2) of this Act, all sums accruing to the Commission by
way of gifts, testamentary disposition, endowments or contributions from phil-
anthropic persons or organisations or otherwise howsoever.
9. Power to accept gifts
(1) The Commission may accept gifts of any antiquity, monument or museum or of
any land, money, loan, building, work of art or other property connected with its func-
tions under or pursuant to this Act upon such trusts and conditions, if any, as may be
specified by the person or organisation making the gift.
(2) The Commission shall not accept any gifts if the conditions attached by the per-
son or organisation making the gift to the acceptance thereof are inconsistent with the
functions of the Commission.

-- 4 of 28 --

10. Borrowing power, etc.
(1) The Commission may, with the consent of the Minister or in accordance with any
general authority given in that behalf by the Federal Government, borrow by way of loan
or overdraft from any source any sums required by the Commission for meeting its obli-
gations and discharging its functions under this Act.
(2) The Commission may, subject to the provisions of the Act and the conditions of
any trust created in respect of any property, invest all or any of its funds with like consent
or general authority.
(3) The Commission may invest any surplus funds of the Commission in such secu -
rities as may be approved by the Minister, so however that in respect of any securities
specified in the Trustee Investment Act, no such consent shall be necessary.
[Cap. T22.]
11. Annual estimates, accounts and audits
(1) The Commission shall cause to be prepared not later than 31 December in each
year, an estimate of the expenditure and income of the Commission during the next suc-
ceeding financial year and when so prepared, it shall be submitted to the Minister for ap -
proval.
(2) The Commission shall cause to be kept proper accounts of the Commission and
proper records in relation thereto and when certified by the Commission such accounts
shall be audited as provided in subsection (3) of this section.
(3) The accounts of the Commission shall be audited as soon as may be after the end
of each financial year by auditors appointed by the Commission with the approval of the
President and the fees of the auditors and the expenses of the audit generally shall be paid
from the funds of the Commission.
(4) Before appointing auditors as provided in subsection (3) of this section, the
Commission shall consult the Minister of Finance.
PART II
Declaration of antiquities as national monuments, etc.
National monuments
12. Special powers of the Commission
(1) For the purpose of the discharge of its functions under this Act, the Commission
may-
(a) for the purpose of discovering antiquities in any area, carry out excavation
with the knowledge of the State Government concerned;
(b) by agreement with the owner of any antiquity (other than a monument) under-
take its maintenance or any other measures which the Commission would have
power to undertake if such antiquity were a national monument;
(c) if the Commission considers it expedient that any antiquity (other than a
monument) should be preserved in a museum, and with the knowledge of the
State Government concerned, arrange for the purchase or loan of the antiquity
and its removal to a national or other approved museum;
(d) enter upon any land where archaeological excavations or other operations are
being carried on, and inspect same.
(2) The powers conferred on the Commission under this section may be exercised on
its behalf by any person or authority authorised either generally or specially by the Com-
mission in that behalf.
13. Steps towards declaration of antiquity as a national monument
(1) The Commission may if it considers that any antiquity is in need of protection or
preservation and ought in the national interest to be protected or preserved publish no-
tices to that effect in the Federal Gazette and cause a copy of the notice to be served on
the owner of the antiquity concerned and every such notice shall-

-- 5 of 28 --

(a) specify the antiquity and the place where it is or is believed to be;
(b) state that it is intended to make an application to the President to declare the
antiquity to be a national monument; and
(c) state that any objection to such declaration shall be lodged with the Commis -
sion within two months from the date of publication of the notice.
(2) The Commission shall in any case in which it is reasonably practicable so to do,
cause a copy of any notice published under subsection (1) of this section to be posted in a
conspicuous place on or near the antiquity to which it relates and additional copies shall
be sent to the local government in which the antiquity is located and the secretary to the
local government concerned shall post a copy of such notice in a conspicuous place in the
principal office of such local government.
(3) Fro m the date of publication of a notice under subsection (1) of this section, until
the publication of an order by the President under subsection (5) of this section or if no
such order is published until the expiry of three months thereafter, it shall be an offence
to destroy, deface, alter, remove or excavate or to transfer the possession of the antiquity
to which the notice relates except with the permission in writing of the Commission:
Provided that nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to prohibit the doing by
the holder of a mining title of any act in relation to any antiquity which is within the area
to which the mining title relates if such act is authorised by the mining title and the holder
has given the Commission at least one month's notice in writing of his intention to do
such act.
(4) The Commission shall within one month after the publication of a notice under
subsection (1) of this section, submit to the President in such manner as may be pre-
scribed, its application for the declaration as a national monument of the antiquity to
which the notice relates.
(5) An application submitted under subsection (4) of this section shall be considered
by the President together with any objections furnished in relation thereto and the Presi-
dent may by order published in the Federal Gazette either declare the antiquity to which
the application relates to be a national monument, or notify his refusal to do so:
Provided that no such declaration shall be made after the expiry of three months
from the date of publication of the notice under subsection (1) of this section to which the
application relates.
(6) An order made under subsection (5) of this section-
(a) may at any time be revoked by the President with the like consent whereupon
the antiquity to which it relates shall cease to be a national monument; and
(b) shall, unless and until it is revoked, be conclusive evidence of the fact that the
antiquity to which it relates is a national monument.
(7) Any person who contravenes the provisions of subsection (3) of this section shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N200 or imprison -
ment for six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
14. Powers in relation to anti quity pending declaration as national monument
Where a notice has been published in respect of antiquity under subsection (1) of sec-
tion 13 of this Act, and the Commission considers that it is necessary to take immediate
steps for the protection or preservation of an antiquity, the Commission may if so
authorised by the Governor of the State where the antiquity is, do all such things as it
would have been entitled to do if the antiquity had been declared a national monument:
Provided that the Commission shall not, save with the consent of the owner of the
antiquity, exercise the power conferred by this section at any time after the Commission
has been informed that the President has refused to declare the antiquity to be a national
monument or, if the Commission has not been so informed, within three months of the
publication of the notice aforesaid and the antiquity has not been so declared after the
expiry of the said three months.

-- 6 of 28 --

15. Power to maintain other monuments
The Commission may with the consent of the owner of a monument, or if it appears to
the Commission that the monument is in danger of decay, destruction or removal or dam-
age from neglect or injudicious treatment, maintain such monument and may-
(a) have access at all reasonable times to the monument for the purposes of in-
specting it and doing such acts as may be required for maintenance thereof;
and
(b) where practicable remove the monument or any part of it for purposes of repair
or protection for such period as may be agreed between the owner thereof and
the Commission.
16. Public access to monuments
The public shall have access to a monument to such extent including where applicable
the payment of such fees as may be provided in rules made by the Commission with the
consent of the Minister.
17. Compensation to owner
(1) Where an antiquity has been declared to be a national monument as provided in
this Act, the owner thereof shall be entitled to compensation for the value at the date of
such declaration and thereafter any estate, right, title and interest in and to such antiquity
shall be extinguished.
(2) In case of dispute as to the amount of compensation payable under this section
such dispute shall be referred to a court of competent jurisdiction in the area concerned.
18. Offences in relation to monuments
(1) Any person who, save as it is provided in this Act, wilfully destroys, defaces, al-
ters, removes or excavates any monument, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine of N1, 000 or twice the value of such monument (whichever is
higher) or to imprisonment for twelve months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) Any person who without lawful authority destroys, defaces, alters or removes any
notice, mark or sign, denoting any monument or any fence, covering or other thing
erected or provided for the maintenance of a monument, shall be guilty of an offence and
liable on conviction to a fine of N500 or to imprisonment for six months or to both such
fine and imprisonment.
(3) Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this section shall be construed as prohib -
iting the doing by the holder of a mining title of any act in relation to a monument or a
thing erected or provided for the maintenance of a monument which is within the area to
which a mining title relates if-
(a) such act is authorised by the mining title; and
(b) the mining title was granted or became effective before the date on which the
monument was so declared; and
(c) the holder has given the Commission at least three months' notice in writing of
his intention to do such act.
Excavations and discoveries
19. Restrictions on excavations
(1) No person shall by means of excavation or similar operations search for any an-
tiquities unless authorised by permit issued by the Commission and with the consent of
the Government of a State in whose territory the search is to be carried out.
(2) The Commission shall before issuing a permit under this section satisfy itself that
the applicant is competent by training and experience to carry out the operations for
which the permit was required and may in its discretion require to be satisfied that he has
the financial means or the financial or other support of an archaeological or scienti fie
society or institution of good repute.
(3) A permit issued under this section-

-- 7 of 28 --

(a) may be made subject to such conditions as the Commission may think fit to
impose;
(b) may at any time be revoked by the Commission without any reason being as -
signed;
(c) shall not of itself confer any right to enter upon any land without the consent of
the holder or occupier of the land or of any other person entitled to grant such
consent.
(4) Notwithstanding the issue of a permit under this section, the person to whom the
permit was issued and all persons engaged in any excavation or other operations to which
the permit relates shall, if so required by any person duly authorised in writing by the
Commission, suspend such operations until notified by the Commission that they may be
resumed.
(5) Any person who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1) or (4) of this section
or fails to comply with any conditions of a permit granted to him under this section, shall
be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of N500 or to imprisonment for
six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
20. Discovery of objects of archaeological interest
(1) Any person who discovers an object of archaeological interest in the course of
operations permitted under section 19 of this Act shall, not later than seven days there-
after, give notice thereof to the Commission.
(2) Any person who discovers an object of archaeological interest otherwise than in
the course of operations mentioned in subsection (l) of this section shall, not later than
seven days thereafter, gi ve notice thereof together with particulars of the place and the
circumstances of the discovery to the Commission and to the secretary to the local gov-
ernment where such discovery is made or to such other person as may be prescribed.
(3) Any person who knowingly fails to comply with any of the foregoing provisions
of this section shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of N500 or
to imprisonment for six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
PART III
Prohibited transfers
21. Ban on buying or selling of antiquities
(1) No person shall-
(a) buy any antiquity unless he is an accredited agent; or
(b) sell any antiquity to any person other than an accredited agent
(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of this section shall be guilty of an
offence and on conviction shall be liable to a fine of N2,000 or five times the value of the
antiquity, whichever is the greater, or to imprisonment for three years, and the court im-
posing the fine or the imprisonment shall make an order for the forfeiture of the antiquity
connected with the offence to the State.
22. Search without warrant by police or customs
(1) Any police officer may at any time search without warrant any person or the
property of any person he reasonably suspects of-
(a) buying any antiquity while he is not an accredited agent; or
(b) selling any antiquity to a person who is not an accredited agent and he may
seize anything he reasonably suspects to be an antiquity together with any
container in which it is kept.
(2) Any officer of the Nigerian Customs Service may at any time search without war-
rant anything intended to be exported from Nigeria if he reasonably believes that the
thing intended to be exported from Nigeria contains any antiquity, and he may seize the
thing he reasonably suspects to be an antiquity together with any container in which it is
kept.

-- 8 of 28 --

(3) Anything seized under subsection (1) or (2) of this section shall as soon as pos -
sible be taken before a magistrate who-
(a) in respect of seizure under subsection (1) of this section, shall make an order
for the forfeiture of the thing seized together with any container in which it is
kept to the State, if it is established that the thing seized is an antiquity and that
it has been bought or sold contrary to the provisions of section 21 of this Act;
(b) in respect of seizure under subsection (2) of this section, shall make an order
for the forfeiture of the thing seized together with any container in which it is
kept to the State if it is established that the thing seized is an antiquity and that
no export permit in respect thereof has been issued by the Commission.
(4) A magistrate shall notwithstanding the provisions of any other enactment, have
jurisdiction for the summary trial of any matter under this Part of this Act and may im-
pose any fine, any sentence or any other penalty, provided by this Act.
(5) Any antiquity forfeiture to the State under any of the provisions of this Part of this
Act shall be kept in the custody of the Director-General and shall be disposed of in such a
manner as the Commission may direct.
(6) Any person obstructing a police officer or an officer of the Nigerian Customs
Service in the performance of his duties under this Act shall be guilty of an offence and
liable on conviction to a fine of N I ,000 or to imprisonment for three years.
23. Registration of anti quities
(1) Any person who has an antiquity in his possession or under his control either be-
fore or after the commencement of this Act shall, if so demanded by an accredited agent,
register the antiquity with the accredited agent who may call upon him in person between
the hours of 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. any day, except on work-free days, for that purpose.
(2) Any antiquity not so registered by a person who is in possession or control of it
when an accredited agent has called upon him in person for the registration thereof shall
be liable to seizure by a police officer, but the antiquity shall not be forfeited except on
the order of a magistrate.
24. Clearance permit
(1) Where a person is in any doubt as to whether or not an object in his possession is
an antiquity, he may apply in person, or in writing, attaching the object in his possession
or a photograph of it, to the Director-General, or any person authorised in writing by the
Director-General, for the determination of the matter.
(2) Where the Director-General or the person authorised in writing by him, is satis -
fied that the object in the possession of the applicant is not an antiquity, he may issue a
permit (hereinafter called a "clearance permit") in respect of that object.
(3) A clearance permit issued in respect of an object shall be conclusive proof that
the object is not an antiquity.
25. Restriction on export of anti quities
(1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (4) of this section and to any exception as
may be prescribed, no antiquity shall be exported from Nigeria without a permit issued in
that behalf by the Commission.
(2) An application for a permit under this section shall be made in such manner as
may be prescribed.
(3) Before issuing a permit under this section in respect of an antiquity the Commis -
sion may cause the antiquity to be inspected and to be sealed.
(4) A permit under this section shall not be required for the export of an antiquity
which has been lawfully imported into Nigeria, but if in any legal proceedings against
any person in respect of a contravention of this section any question shall arise whether
an antiquity has been lawfully imported into Nigeria the onus of proof thereof shall lie
upon that person.
26. Compulsory purchase of antiquity

-- 9 of 28 --

(1) Where any person has applied to the Commission for a permit to export any an-
tiquity from Nigeria and the permit is refused, the Commission acting through an accred -
ited agent may for a fair and reasonable local price compulsorily buy the antiquity from
the applicant.
(2) Any person who is dissatisfied with the local price offered or paid for his antiq -
uity by an accredited agent may, within thirty days of the offer or the payment, apply to
the High Court having jurisdiction in the place where the offer or the payment was made
to determine a fair and reasonable local price for his antiquity.
(3) Any application under subsection (2) of this section, shall be by summons and as
in the Form set out in the Fourth Schedule to this Act.
[Fourth Schedule.]
(4) Any applicant for a permit under subsection (1) of this section, who intentionally
destroys or damages the antiquity for which a permit to export from Nigeria has been
refused, shall be guilty of an offence and on conviction shall be liable to a fine of N200
or to imprisonment for six months.
27. Interpretation of this Part
In this Part-
"export permit" means the permit issued under section 25 of this Act;
"the State" means the Government of the Federation;
"value" means the price for which an antiquity would be sold if it were offered for
sale in an international art market.
PART IV
Miscellaneous and supplementary
28. Annual reports
The Commission shall, not later than 30 June in each year, submit to the President
through the Minister a report on the activities of the Commission and its administration
during the immediately preceding year and shall include in such report the audited ac-
counts of the Commission.
29. Staff regulations
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Commission may make staff regulations
relating generally to the conditions of service of the employees of the Commission and,
without prejudice to the foregoing, such regulations may provide for-
(a) the appointment, promotion and disciplinary control (including dismissal) of
employees of the Commission; and
(b) appeals by such employees against dismissal or other disciplinary measures,
and until such regulations are made, any instrument relating to the conditions of officers
in the public service of the Federation shall, with such modifications as may be neces -
sary, be applicable to the employees of the Commission.
(2) Staff regulations made under subsection (1) of this section shall not have effect
until approved by the Minister; and when so approved they may not be published in the
Federal Gazette but the Commission shall cause them to be brought to the notice of all
affected persons in such manner as it may, from time to time, determine.
30. Regulations
Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the Minister, with the approval of the
President, may make regulations generally for the purposes of this Act and the due ad-
ministration thereof.
31. Repeals, etc., and transitional and savings provisions
(1) The Antiquities Act and the Antiquities (Prohibited Transfers) Act are hereby re-
pealed and the Antiquities (Amendment) Act is hereby consequentially repealed.

-- 10 of 28 --

[1974 No. 9. 1969 No. 19.]
(2) The Antiquities Commission established under the aforementioned Act is hereby
dissolved and notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the transitional and savings
provisions in Part A of the Third Schedule to this Act shall have effect in relation to the
assets and liabilities of the dissolved Commission and the other matters mentioned in the
said Schedule.
[Third Schedule. Part A.]
(3) As from the date of commencement of this Act, the department of the Federal
Ministry of Information and National Orientation known and styled as the Federal De-
partment of Antiquities shall cease to exist and the transitional and savings provisions in
Part B of the Third Schedule to this Act shall have effect in relation to the public officers
in the dissolved Department, the assets and liabilities held by or on behalf of the Federal
Government for any purpose in respect of which the said Department had responsibility
and the other matters mentioned in the said Schedule.
[Third Schedule. Part B.]
32. Interpretation
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires -
"accredited agent" means the Director-General or any employee of the Commission
authorised in writing by the Commission or any person or body in any State authorised in
writing by the Minister to act for the Commission in the State concerned;
"antiquity" means-
(a) any object of archaeological interest or land in which any such object was dis -
covered or is believed to exist; or
(b) any relic of early human settlement or colonisation; or
(c) any work of art or craft work, including any statue, model, clay figure, figure
cast or rust metal, carving, house post, door, ancestral figure, religious mask,
staff, drum, bolt, ornament, utensil, weapon, armour, regalia, manuscript of
document if such work of art or craft work is of indigenous origin and-
(i) was made or fashioned before the year 1918; or
(ii) is of historical, artistic or scientific interest and is or has been used at
any time in the performance and for the purposes of any traditional
ceremony,
and in the case of any object or relic mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section
includes for the purposes of this Act any land adjacent thereto which in the opinion of the
Commission, a State Government or, as the case may require, the President, is reasonably
required for the purpose of maintaining the same or the amenities thereof or for providing
or facilitating access thereto, or for the exercise of proper control or management with
respect thereto;
"approved museum" means a museum approved by the Commission under section 3
of this Act;
"the Commission" means the National Commission for Museums and Monuments
established under section I of this Act;
"local government" means any local government council established by law in any
State of the Federation;
"maintenance", in relation to an antiquity, includes the fencing, repairing and cov-
ering of any antiquity and the doing of any other act or thing which may be required fo r
the purpose of repairing the antiquity or protecting it from decay or injury, and "main -
tain" shall be construed accordingly;
"the Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibility for antiquities, muse-
ums and national monuments;

-- 11 of 28 --

"mining title" means any licence, right or lease granted under the provisions of the
Minerals and Mining Act, and the Petroleum Act or under the provisions of any other
enactment regulating or authorising the mining of solid or other minerals;
[Cap. M12.]
"monument" or "national monument" means any antiquity declared to be such un-
der section 13 of this Act;
"object" of "archaeological interest" means-
(a) any fossil remains of man or of animals found in association with man; or
(b) any side trace or ruin of an ancient habitation, working place, midden or sacred
place; or
(c) any case or other natural shelter or engraving, drawing, painting, or inscription
on rock or elsewhere; or
(d) any stone object or implement believed to have been used or produced by early
man; or
(e) any ancient structure, erection, memorial, causeway, bridge, cairn, tumulus,
grave, shrine, excavation, well, water tank, artificial hole, monolith, grove of
stores, earthwork, wall, gateway or fortification; or
(f) any antique tool or object of metal, wood, stone, clay, leather, textile, basket
wear or other material,
which is (or are) of archaeological interest;
"owner" includes a joint owner invested with powers of management in respect of an
antiquity on behalf of himself and other joint owners and any agent or trustee exercising
such powers and the attorney of any such person.
33. Short title
This Act may be cited as the National Commission for Museums and Monuments
Act.