1. Establishment of the Commission
There is hereby established for the Federal Republic of Nigeria, a commission to be
known as the National Population Commission (hereafter in this Act referred to as "the
Commission") which, under that name, shall be a body corporate with perpetual suc-
cession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in its corporate name, and whose
members shall exercise the functions specified in this Act.
2. Composition of the Commission
The Commission shall comprise the following members-
(a) 	a chairman; and
(b) 	one person from each State of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory,
Abuja, who shall be appointed by the President, after consultation with the
Council of State and such appointment shall be subject to confirmation by the
Senate.
3. Qualification for membership
(1) No person shall be qualified for appointment as a member of the Commission, if
within the preceding ten years, he has been removed from service as the holder of any
office on the ground of misconduct.
(2) Any person employed in the public service of the Federation shall not be disqualified
for appointment as chairman or member of the Commission:
Provided that where that person has been duly appointed he shall, on his appointment,
be deemed to have resigned or where appropriate, withdrawn or retired from his former office
as from the date of the appointment.
4. Tenure of office of members
Subject to the provisions of section 5 of this Act, a member of the Commission shall
hold office for a period of five years, from the date of his appointment as a member.

-- 3 of 36 --

5. Removal of member and cessation of membership
(I) A member of the Commission may only be removed from that office by the
President for inability to discharge the functions of his office (whether arising from infirmity
of mind or body or any other cause) or for misconduct or for dereliction of duty.
(2) The chairman and other members of the Commission, shall cease to hold office if
the President declares a national census report to be unreliable and the report is rejected
in accordance with the provisions of section 27 of this Act.
PART II
Functions and powers of the Commission
6. Functions and powers of the Commission
(I) The Commission shall-
(a) 	undertake the enumeration of the population of Nigeria periodically, through
censuses, sample surveys or otherwise;
(b) 	establish and maintain a machinery for continuous and universal registration of
births and deaths, throughout the Federation;
(c) 	prepare and maintain a national framework, including locality list and house-
numbering, for the delineation exercise for census and sample surveys in each
local government area in Nigeria;
[1991 No. 31.]
(d) 	collect, collate and publish data on migration statistics;
(e) 	research and monitor the national population policy and set up a national
population information data bank;
(j) 	arrange for the appointment and training of enumerators and all other categories of
staff of the Commission;
(g) 	provide information and data on population for purposes of facilitating national
planning and economic development;
(h) 	advise the President on population matters;
(i) 	disseminate information and educate the general public about the functions of
the Commission under this Act;
(j) 	do all such things as may be considered by the Commission to be necessary,
desirable, expedient, supplementary or incidental to the performance of the
functions or the exercise of the powers conferred on the Commission under
this Act.
(2) For the purposes of this Act "local government area" includes Area Councils of
the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja.
[1991 No.
31.]

-- 4 of 36 --

7. Autonomy and independence of the Commission in performing its statutory
functions
The Commission shall be an independent and autonomous body and shall not be subject to
the direction or control of any other authority or person, in the performance of its
functions under this Act and, in particular-
(a) 	in appointing, training or arranging for the training of enumerators or other
staff of the Commission to assist it in the conduct of any population census;
(b) 	in deciding whether or not to accept or revise the return of any officer of the
Commission concerning the population census in any area or any part of
Nigeria;
(c) 	in carrying out the operation of conducting the census; and
(d) 	in compiling its report of a national census for publication.
8. Proceedings of the Commission
The provisions of the First Schedule to this Act, shall apply with respect to the
proceedings of the Commission and the other matters provided therein.
[First Schedule.]
PART III
Organisation and staff
9. Appointment, etc., of Director-General of the Commission
(1) There shall be appointed by the President for the Commission, a Director-
General, who shall carry out the duties specified in subsection (2) of this section and per-
form such other duties, as may be directed by the Commission, from time to time.
[1991 No. 31.]
(2) The Director-General shall-
(a) 	be the accounting officer and the professional and administrative head of the
Commission;
[1999 No. 16.]
(b) 	co-ordinate the professional and administrati ve functions of the Commission;
(c) 	assist the chairman in ensuring that all the rules and regulations relating to the
management of the human material and financial resources of the Commission,
are adhered to in accordance with the objectives of the Federal Government;
[1999 No. 16.]
(d) 	be responsible for the implementation of the decisions of the Commission;
(e) 	contribute to policy recommendations meant for the attention of the chairman
of the Commission;
(f) 	ensure compliance with the performance and efficiency targets set for every
department in the Commission;
(g) 	evaluate the annual performance of Directors;

-- 5 of 36 --

(h) 	perform any other functions as the chairman or the Commission may, from
time to time, assign to him.
[1991 No. 31.]
10. Appointment of principal officers of the Commission
(I) The Commission shall appoint the following other principal officers, that is-
(a) 	the secretary to the Commission; and
(b) 	the directors.
[1991 No. 31.]
(2) The secretary to the Commission shall be a public officer of the rank of Director
and shall perform the following duties-
(a) 	preparing minutes of meetings of the Commission;
(b) 	keeping and securing records of the Commission as may be directed by the
chairman;
(c) 	heading the Commission's secretariat;
(d) 	performing such other functions as may be determined, from time to time, by
the chairman or the Commission.
[1991 No. 31.]
(3) The Commission may appoint such number of directors, as the President may approve,
to be heads of departments in the Commission.
[1991 No. 31.]
11. Power of the Commission to appoint, etc., staff
The Commission shall have the power to appoint, promote and discipline staff, in
accordance with the provisions of the Civil Service (Re-organisation) Act and other rules
and circulars appertaining to the appointment, promotion and discipline of officers and
employees in the civil service of the Federation.
[1991 No. 31.]
12. Establishment of State offices of the Commission
(I) There shall be established for each State of the Federation and for the Federal
Capital Territory, Abuja, an office of the Commission, to be headed by a deputy Director.
[1991 No. 31.]
(2) There shall also be established in each local government area of every. State, a lo-
cal office of the Commission to be headed by a Comptroller.
13. Special provisions as regards personnel
(I) The Federal Government or a State Government may, on an application made to
it by the Commission in that behalf, second to the Commission officers in the public
service of the Federation or, as the case may be, of a State to assist the Commission in the
discharge of its functions under this Act.

-- 6 of 36 --

(2) The Commission may, if it deems it necessary to do so, and with the approval of
the President, appoint persons not in the public service of the Federation to perform such
duties as the Commission may, from time to time, direct.
14. Pensions
(1) Service in the Commission shall be approved service for the purposes of the Pensions
Act and, accordingly, officers and other persons employed in the Commission shall
be entitled to pensions, gratuities and other retirement benefits, as are prescribed thereunder.
[Cap. P4.]
(2) Nothing in this section shall prevent the appointment of a person on a temporary
basis or to any office in the Commission on terms and conditions which preclude the
grant of a pension or gratuity in respect of service in that office.
(3) For the purposes of the application of the provisions of the Pensions Act, any
power exercisable thereunder by a Minister or other authority of the Government of the
Federation, other than the power to make regulations under section 23 thereof, is hereby
vested in and shall be exercisable by the Commission and not by any other person or
authority.
PART IV
Financial provisions and reports
15. Establishment of a fund by the Commission
(1) The Commission shall establish and maintain a fund, consisting of such moneys,
as may in each year be appropriated by the Federal Government, for the purpose of the
Commission.
(2) The Commission shall defray from the fund established pursuant to subsection (1)
of this section, all moneys payable under or in pursuance of this Act, being sums representing-
(a) 	amounts payable to the chairman and other members of the Commission
(including allowances);
(b) 	costs of employment of staff of the Commission;
(c) 	amounts payable as pensions, gratuities and other retirement benefits under or
pursuant to this Act or any other enactment;
(d) 	costs of acquisition and upkeep of premises, belonging to the Commission and
any other capital expenditure of the Commission; and
(e) 	any other payment for anything incidental to the foregoing provisions or in
connection with or incidental to any other function of the Commission under
or pursuant to this Act.
[1999 No.
16.]

-- 7 of 36 --

16. Accounts and audit
(I) The Director-General of the Commission shall, before 30 September in each year,
cause to be prepared an estimate of recurrent and capital expenditure and, when approved
by the Commission, the estimates shall be forwarded for approval by the Federal Government.
[1999 No. 16.]
(2) The director in charge of the Finance and Supply Department of the Commission
shall keep proper accounts and proper records in relation thereto, under the direction and
control of the Director-General.
[1999 No. 16.]
(3) The accounts of the Commission shall be audited annually by an auditor appointed by
the Commission from the list and in accordance with guidelines supplied by the Auditor-
General for the Federation.
17. Annual reports
(I) In addition to any other report prescribed under this Act, the Commission shall
prepare and submit to the President not later than 31 December in each year, a report on
the activities of the Commission during the immediately preceding year, and shall include
in that report, a copy of the audited accounts of the Commission for that year and the
auditor's report thereon.
(2) The Commission may, with the approval of the President, from time to time,
publish general reports of its activities, for sale to members of the public.
PARTY
Offences and penalties
18. Prohibition of debate of census and other population figures without authority
It shall not be lawful for any State Government to debate, discuss or deal with, or re-
quire the State office or any staff of the Commission to release to the State Government,
population figures (or matters relating thereto) of the State in question, without the
authority in writing of the Commission and any person who without such approval-
(a) 	communicates or releases any information concerning population figures of a
State to the State Government or members thereof; or
(b) 	tables for discussion at a meeting of the State Government the population figures of
the State; or
(c) 	treats, engages in or takes part in debating the population figures of the State,
at a meeting of the State Government, is guilty of an offence under this section
and is liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of not less than five
years without the option of a fine.
19. Penalty for falsifying returns
Any person employed for any of the purposes of this Act who-

-- 8 of 36 --

(a) 	makes or signs or causes to be made or signed any return or document of
whatever nature required for the purposes of this Act, which he knows to be
false or untrue in any material particular; or
(b) 	enters in any return or document any information or statement, which he
knows to be false or untrue in any material particular; or
(c) 	counterfeits any seal or stamp of the Commission or signature or initial or
other mark of any other person authorised by the Commission to certify any
return or document, is guilty of an offence under this section and liable on
conviction to a fine of ten thousand naira or to imprisonment for a term of three
years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
20. Unlawful disclosure and failure to furnish information lawfully requested
(1) Any person, being a person employed for any of the purposes of this Act, who
without lawful authority, publishes or communicates to any person, otherwise than in the
ordinary course of his duties, any information acquired by him in the course of his duties,
is guilty of an offence under this section and liable on conviction to a fine of ten thousand
naira or to imprisonment for a term of three years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) Any person, being in possession of any information which to his knowledge has
been disclosed in contravention of this Act, or who publishes or communicates such in-
formation to any person, is guilty of an offence under this section and liable on conviction to a
fine of ten thousand naira or imprisonment for a term of three years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
(3) Any person who, in the execution of any other purpose or duty under this Act,
fails to comply with or contravenes any other term or condition of his oath, is guilty of an
offence under this section and liable on conviction to a fine of ten thousand naira or to
imprisonment for a term of three years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
21. Penalties for failure to furnish information
(1) Any person who is required to furnish information, estimates, returns or particulars
under this Act and who fails to do so, is guilty of an offence under this section and
liable on conviction to a fine of five hundred naira or imprisonment for six months, or to
both such fine and imprisonment, but it shall be a defence for any person charged with
failure to furnish information, estimates, returns or particulars under this Act, to prove
that he did not know and had no reasonable means of knowing that he was required to
furnish that information or those estimates, returns or particulars or that he had other reason-
able excuse for such failure.
(2) Any person who, after conviction in respect of an offence under subsection (1) of
this section, continues to fail to comply with the provisions of the subsection, is guilty of
a further offence and liable on conviction to be punished for the offence.
(3) Any person who, in purported compliance with a requirement to furnish information,
estimates, returns or particulars under this Act, knowingly or recklessly makes any
statement in such information, estimates, returns or particulars which is false in any material
particular, is guilty of an offence under this subsection and liable on conviction to a
fine of one thousand naira or to imprisonment for a term of twelve months or to both such
fine and imprisonment.

-- 9 of 36 --

22. Penalties in respect of information or unlawful obstruction during census
(I) Any person who during the compilation of any national census or during any
enumeration exercise carried on by the Commission under this Act-
(a) 	knowingly presents himself to any person employed for the purpose of this Act
for counting more than once or misleads any such person employed as afore-
said into counting him more than once; or
(b) 	aids, abets, counsels or procures any person to do any act referred to in paragraph
(a) of this subsection, is guilty of an offence under this subsection and liable on conviction to a
fine of ten thousand naira or imprisonment for a term of three years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
(2) Any person who during the compilation of any national census or during any
enumeration exercise carried on by the Commission under this Act-
(a) 	knowingly refuses to present himself for counting before a person employed
for that purpose under this Act or refuses to get his thumb dubbed with
indelible ink after such counting; or
(b) 	obliterates or removes or attempts to obliterate or remove any indelible ink
dubbed on his thumb during the enumeration period,
is guilty of an offence under this subsection and liable on conviction to a fine of five
hundred naira or to imprisonment for a term of six months or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
(3) Any person who at any time before or during the compilation of any national census or
during any enumeration exercise carried on by the Commission under this Act-
(a) 	causes or procures any other person to leave the place at which such other
person ordinarily resides for another place, with intent that such other person
may be counted at the place to which he thereby moves; or
(b) 	organises or takes part in organising or otherwise brings about the movement
of any group or persons from such place or places at which such persons
ordinarily reside for another place, with intent that such persons may be
counted at the place to which they thereby move,
is guilty of an offence under this subsection and liable on conviction to a fine of one
thousand naira or to imprisonment for a term of twelve months or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
23. Penalty for destruction of document
Any person who wilfully and without lawful authority destroys, defaces or mutilates
any form, notice or other document containing information obtained in pursuance of the
provisions of this Act or destroys, obliterates, alters or damages any sticker containing
the number of the house pasted on the premises for the purposes of the census or other
surveys, is guilty of an offence under this section and liable on conviction to a fine of ten
thousand naira or to imprisonment for a term of three years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.

-- 10 of 36 --

24. Offences by body corporate or firm
(1) Where an offence under the provisions of this Act is committed by-
(a) 	a body corporate, every director and officer of that body corporate is liable on
conviction to a fine of five hundred naira each or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding six months or to both such fine and imprisonment;
(b) 	a firm, every partner is deemed jointly and severally liable on conviction, to a
fine of two thousand naira each or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
eighteen months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) A person shall not be guilty of an offence under this section if he can prove that
the offence was committed without his knowledge, consent or connivance, and that having
regard to all circumstances, he exercised all due care and diligence to prevent the commission
of the offence.
25. Jurisdiction
Any offence under this Act shall be triable by the Federal High Court.
PART VI
Power of the Commission to enter premises
26. Power of the Commission to enter premises
(1) Any person authorised by the Commission in writing, upon production if required
of his authorisation, may, for any purpose connected with the taking of a census or any
enumeration of persons, enter within the hours specified by the Commission or any other
reasonable time, any premises where persons are employed, or, subject to the provisions
of subsection (2) of this section, any dwelling-house, and may there make such inquiries
as may be deemed necessary, for the performance of his duties under this Act.
(2) Every person occupying any land, house, enclosure, vessel or other place, shall
allow any person duly authorised by the Commission to have access in accordance with
this section.
(3) Any person who hinders or obstructs any person duly authorised by the Commission in
the execution of the power conferred by this section or who does not comply with
this section, is guilty of an offence under this section and liable on conviction to a fine of
five hundred naira or to imprisonment for a term of six months or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
PART VII
Report of census by the Commission
27. Report of census by the Commission
(1) Any report of the Commission containing the population census after every census,
shall be delivered to the President, by the chairman of the Commission.

-- 11 of 36 --

(2) The President shall, within a period of thirty days after receipt of the report, lay
copies of the report before the Council of State, which shall consider the report and advise the
President, whether to accept or reject the report.
(3) Where the Council of State advises the President to accept the report, the President
shall accept the same and shall lay the report on the table of each House of the National
Assembly.
(4) When the President accepts such report and has laid on the table of each House of
the National Assembly, he shall publish in the Federal Gazette of the Government of the
Federation for public information.
(5) When the Council of State advises the President to reject the report upon the
ground that-
(a) 	the population census contained in the report is inaccurate; or
(b) 	the report is perverse,
the President shall reject the report accordingly and no reliance shall be placed upon any
such report by any authority or person or for any purpose whatsoever.
PART VIII
Establishment of Census Tribunals
28. Establishment and membership of Census Tribunals
(I) There shall be established in designated centres, Census Tribunals to hear com-
plaints and objections to census results, as they relate to specific local government areas
or localities.
[1991 No. 31.]
(2) The Census Tribunals established by subsection (I) of this section shall consist of
a chairman and two other members, who shall be persons of unquestionable integrity,
who have not been involved in party politics.
(3) The chairman shall be a person who has held office or is qualified to hold the office of
a Judge of a High Court.
(4) One of the members shall be a legal practitioner, who has been so qualified for a
period of not less than five years and the other shall be a non-member of the legal profession.
(5) The chairman and other members shall be appointed by the Chief Justice of
Nigeria.
(6) Where any complaint or objection is upheld by the Census Tribunal, the President
may order a statistical verification or a recount of the particular area concerned, in order
to correct the anomaly.
[1991 No. 31.]
(7) The rules of procedure to be adopted by the Census Tribunal in hearing com-
plaints and objections to census results, shall be as set out in the Third Schedule to this
Act.
[1992 No. 26. Third