1. Establishment of the National Eye Centre

(1) There is hereby established at Kaduna, a center by the name of the National Eye
Centre (in this Act referred to as "the Centre"), which shall be a body corporate with per-
petual succession and a common seal.

(2) The Centre shall be a hospital, specialising in ophthalmology, with facilities for
the training of ophthalmic personnel at all levels.

2. Functions of the Centre

(1) The functions of the Centre shall be to provide as part of the hospital and special-
ist services, services in connection with the diagnosis and treatment of diseases or defects
of the eye, supply of optical appliances and other supplementary ophthalmic services.

(2) The Centre shall have power-

(a)        to provide diagnostic, curative, promotive and rehabilitative ophthalmic serv-
ices;

(b)        to provide ambulatory and domiciliary ophthalmic treatment, employing the
services of ophthalmologists and other medical practitioners;

(c)       to provide facilities for the clinical training of ophthalmologists;

(d)        to provide facilities for the training of ophthalmic and dispensing opticians,
ophthalmic nurses, orthoptists and ophthalmic technicians;

(e)        to create facilities for research into all aspects of ophthalmology, that is to say,
visual, clinical and experimental;

(f)         to develop new diagnostic and therapeutic ophthalmic instruments and appli-
ances better suited to the practice of ophthalmology in Nigeria.

(3) For the purposes of the discharge of its functions under the foregoing provisions
of this section, the Centre may-

(a)       arrange periodic conferences, seminars, study groups and like activities in
ophthalmology;

(b)       advise the Government of the Federation or of a State on all matters relating to
defects and diseases of the eye and the prevention of blindness;

(c)        offer such assistance to ophthalmic hospitals or units in various parts of the
Federation, as the Board may deem necessary;

(d)        do anything in connection with or incidental to the functions conferred on it by
this Act.

3. Constituent parts of the Centre

The Centre shall be constituted as follows, that is to say-
(a)  management board;
(b)  an education committee;
(c)   the clinical and other departments of the Centre;

(d)   all members of the administrative, clinical and technical staff; and
(e)  all students of the Centre.

4. The Management Board

(1) There is hereby established for the Centre, a board to be known as the National
Eye Centre Management Board (in this Act referred to as "the Board"), which shall have
general responsibility for the government of the Centre and shall consist of-

(a)        the Chairman;

(b)       the Director;

(c)       four persons, broadly representative of the whole Federation and representing a
variety of interest, who shall be appointed by the President;

(d)       two persons appointed by the consultant staff of the hospital from among their
number;

(e) the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Health, or his representative;
(f) the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Education, or his representative.

(2) The Chairman and other members who are not ex officio shall be appointed by the
President, on the recommendation of the Minister.

(3) The Chairman shall be a person of proven integrity, coupled with experience and
outstanding ability in administration and professional or technical education.

(4) The members specified in paragraphs (b), (d), (e) and if) of subsection (1) of this
section, are hereafter referred to as "ex-officio members".

(5) The supplementary provisions in the Schedule to this Act, shall have effect with
respect to the constitution and proceedings of the Board and the education committee and
the other matters therein mentioned.

[Schedule.]

5. Tenure of office of the Chairman and members of the Board

(1) The Chairman and any other member of the Board (not being an ex-officio mem-
ber), shall hold office for a period of three years and shall be eligible for re-appointment
for a further period of three years:

Provided that members of the Board appointed under paragraph (d) of section 4 (1)
of this Act, shall hold office for two years and shall not be eligible for re-appointment.

(2) A member of the Board, other than an ex-officio member, shall be paid out of
monies at the disposal of the Board such remuneration and allowances in accordance with
scales approved from time to time by the President.

(3) In the event of the death or incapacity of the Chairman of the Board, or if for any
reason other than effluxion of time, the office of the Chairman is vacant, the President
shall, on the recommendation of the Minister, appoint another person as chairman for the
residue of the term of the Chairman of the Board.

(4) The office of a member of the Board shall become vacant if-

(a) he previously resigns his office by notice in writing given to the Minister;

(b) the period of his appointment has expired; or

(c) there is passed by the Board, a resolution declaring-

(i)    that he has become unfit for membership of the Board, by reason of the
fact that he has become incapable by reason of mental or bodily infir-
mity of discharging his duties; or

(ii)    that he has been absent from three consecutive meetings of the Board
without leave of the Board; or

(iii)    he has been convicted of an offence which involves moral turpitude.

(5) Soon after the office of a member becomes vacant, the authority by which he was
appointed shall appoint another person in his place in accordance with the provisions of
this Act.

(6) Any member of the Board other than an ex-officio member may, by notice to the
Board, resign his appointment.

6. General duty of the Board

(1) The Board shall be the governing body of the Centre and shall be charged with
the general control and superintendence of the policy, finances and property of the Cen-
tre, including its public relations.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, it shall be the duty of the
Board-

(a)        to construct, equip, maintain and operate the hospital, which is to provide
comprehensive services, teaching and clinical research in ophthalmology;

(b)        to construct, equip, maintain and operate such training schools and similar in-
stitutions as the Board considers necessary, for providing the Centre at all
times with adequate and sufficiently qualified staff, including ophthalmolo-
gists, ophthalmic technicians, nurses and members of other allied professions
and calling, relevant to the practice of ophthalmology;

(c)        to construct, equip, maintain and operate such clinics, units, out-patient de-
partments, laboratories, research or experimental stations and other like insti-
tutions, as the Board may consider necessary for the efficient functioning of
the Centre.

(3) The duty of running the Centre imposed by the foregoing subsection shall in-
clude, without prejudice to the extent of that duty apart from this subsection, the duty of
providing proper courses of instruction for students; but the Board shall not have power
to award degrees, so however that the Board shall not be prevented from arranging for
students to attend courses at or take higher qualifications awarded by other institutions
not controlled by the Board.

(4) The Board shall ensure that the standards of treatment and care for patients pro-
vided at all establishments controlled by the Board and the standards of training at those
establishments, do not fall below those usually provided by similar establishments of
internationally high repute.

(5) Subject to this Act, the Board shall have power to do anything, which in its opin-
ion, is calculated to facilitate the carrying out of its functions under this Act.

7. Powers of the Board in relation to management, etc., of the Centre staff

The Board shall be responsible for laying down general policies and guidelines relat-
ing to the management of the affairs of the Centre, including the management of the hos-
pital and the provision of facilities relating to the training of all categories of ophthalmic
personnel and it shall be the duty of the Director to execute such policies and to keep
within such guidelines.

Staff

8. The Director

(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, the Director shall be appointed or re-
moved from his office by the President.

(2) The Director shall hold office for four years in the first instance and shall be eli-
gible for reappointment for terms not exceeding three years, on each occasion.

(3) Subject to this section, the Director shall hold office on such terms as to emolu-
ments and otherwise as may be specified in his letter of appointment.

(4) The Director shall, in relation to the Board, take precedence before all other
members of the Centre, except the Chairman of the Board and any person for the time
being acting as Chairman of the Board.

(5) Subject to this section, the Director shall be the chief executive officer of the
Centre and in addition to any other function conferred on him by this Act, have the gen-
eral function of directing the day-to-day activities of the Centre.

9. Appointment, etc., of other staff

(1) The senior members of the clinical, administrative and technical staff of the Cen-
tre shall be appointed by the Board on the recommendation of a committee, to be known
as the Appointments and Promotions Committee, set up under the provisions of para-
graph 4 (3) of the Schedule to this Act.

[Schedule.]

(2) The Board shall from among the officers appointed pursuant to subsection (1) of
this section select, on the recommendation of the Director, a person to act both as the
secretary to the Board and to the education committee.

(3) The power to appoint all other categories of staff to hold or act in offices in the
Centre (including power to make appointments on promotion and transfer and to confirm,
dismiss or exercise other disciplinary control over persons holding or acting in such of-
fices), shall be exercised by the Director acting on the recommendation of the Junior
Staff Appointments and Promotions Committee, constituted under paragraph 4 (4) of the