1. Establishment of the National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastruc-
ture

(1) There is hereby established an agency to be known as the National Agency for
Science and Engineering Infrastructure (in this Act referred to as "the Agency").

(2) The Agency shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common
seal and may sue or be sued in its corporate name.

2. Establishment of the Board of the Agency

(1) There is hereby established for the Agency, a governing board (in this Act referred to as "the Board") which shall conduct the affairs of the Agency.

(2) The Board shall consist of-

(a) the President as chairman;

(b) a full-time executive vice-chairman, who shall be a person with good knowl-
edge of science and technology, to be appointed by the President;

(c) the Minister of the National Planning Commission or his representative;
(d) the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria or his representative;

(e) the Minister of Science and Technology or his representative;

(f) the Minister of Works and Housing or his representative;

(g) the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development or his representative;
(h) the Minister of Health or his representative;

(i) the President or chairman, as the case may be, or a representative of-
(i)      the Nigerian Academy of Science;

(ii)     the Nigerian Society of Engineers;

(iii)   the Council of Registered Engineers of Nigeria;
(iv)    the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria;

(v)     the National Association of Small Scale Industrialists;
(vi)    the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce;
(vii)  Industry, Mines and Agriculture; and

(j) two other persons to be appointed on personal merit by the President.

(3) The vice-chairman shall be the chief executive and accounting officer
of the Agency.

(4) The supplementary provisions set out in the First Schedule to this Act shall have
effect with respect to the proceedings of the Board and the other matters contained
therein.

[First Schedule.]

3. Tenure of office of members of the Board

(1) The vice-chairman shall hold office for a period of five years and may be re-
appointed by the President, for one further period of five years.

(2) A member of the Board, who is not an ex-officio member, shall hold office for
three years, and shall be eligible for re-appointment for one further period of three years.

(3) No member of the Board shall be entitled to appoint another person to represent
him at a meeting.

4. Remuneration of members of the Board

(1) The vice-chairman shall be paid such emolument as may be specified in his letter
of appointment.

(2) The allowances payable to members of the Board shall be in accordance with such
rates as may be approved by the Federal Government, from time to time.

5. Removal from office of members of the Board

(1) If it appears to the Board that the vice-chairman or any other member of the
Board, other than an ex-officio member, should be removed from office on the grounds of
misconduct or inability to perform the functions of his office, the Board shall make a rec-
ommendation to the President.

(2) If the President, after making such inquiries as he considers necessary, approves
the recommendation, the secretary to the Government of the Federation shall, in writing,
declare the office of the vice-chairman or of such a member vacant.

(3) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, the President may remove any
member of the Board if he is satisfied that it is in the public interest so to do.

PART II

Functions

6. Functions of the Agency

(1) The Agency shall gear its organisation and programmes towards the practical im-
plementation of the National Science and Technology Policy to-

(a)        ensure that the national research and development system is managed outside
the civil service system;

(b)        enhance the development and entrenchment of a new research and develop-
ment tradition in Nigeria so as to-

(i)    establish in Nigeria the practice of an open, consistent, equitable, accountable and corporate research management system;
(ii)   engender a high morale and discipline in staff of all categories;

(iii)   ensure an efficient and cost-effective employment of available resources;

(iv)   achieve a high research and development output and revenue; and

(v)    make the desired impact on national economic and social development.

(2) Accordingly, the Agency shall-

(a)        commission technical feasibility studies and produce plans for the establish-
ment of science and engineering infrastructure development complexes;

(b)        establish, maintain and supervise science and engineering infrastructure devel-
opment complexes and centres;

(c)         implement, with the active involvement of relevant Federal and State Minis-
tries, strategies for the generation of private sector science and engineering
capital goods industries which form satellites of science and engineering infra-
structure development complexes;

(d)        develop facilities and capabilities, through its subsidiary institutions, universi-
ties and polytechnics, for the following activities, that is-

(i)    capital goods oriented research and development work in engineering materials, chemical materials, scientific equipment, engineering accessories, power equipment,
engineering tools and environmental protection;
(ii)    applied and basic research and development work in new and emerging areas of science and technology, including micro-electronics, computer
technology, bio-technology, including nuclear technology, space science and its applications in remote sensing and environmental monitoring, new materials;
(iii)    development oriented research in agriculture and forestry environmental conservation, fisheries and animal husbandry, nutrition, human and veterinary medicine,    pharmaceutical materials and building and construction materials;

(iv)    collaboration with higher educational institutions and other relevant
Government institutions, organisations, agencies and commercial in-
dustries in the research and development of capital goods and in scien-
tific and engineering manpower training;

(v)     such other activities, as the Agency may, from time to time, deem nec-
essary for the purposes of this paragraph;

(e)         consider applications for research and development grants made by institu-
tions, corporate bodies and individuals for science and engineering on the basis
of criteria to be determined by the Agency;

(f)         encourage the growth of in-plant research and development activities in science
and engineering;

(g)         publicise the useful results of its research on science and engineering materials
and capital equipment, and collaborate with industries to achieve their success-
ful adoption;

(h)         provide the national focal point for international scientific affiliations to which
Nigeria and Nigerian scientific bodies subscribe, and pay annual and other
contributions which are due to such international bodies;

(i)          lend support to national scientific bodies and establish a commercial scientific

press facility for the local production of scientific and technical books and
journals;

(j)          through the National Council for Science and Technology and the State and
Local Governments, elicit the active participation of corporate bodies, citizen
groups and individuals in the establishment of a national science and engi-
neering infrastructure;

(k)        invest surplus funds of the Agency in profit-yielding ventures;

(l)         carry out such other activities as are necessary or expedient for the performance of its functions under this Act.

7. Functions of the Board

The functions of the Board shall be to-

(a)        formulate policies and advise the Federal Government on-

(i)    the establishment, by the public and private sectors, of a national science and engineering infrastructure; and
(ii)   the exploitation, acquisition, conservation and stockpiling of strategic materials;
(b)         receive and consider proposals, recommendations and suggestions by the Technical Advisory Committee and by other bodies and persons on subjects relating to the functions of the Agency;

(c)         consider and approve the capital development plans of the Agency, and consider and award contracts which lie within its competence;

(d)        appoint-

(i)    employees necessary for the proper discharge of the functions of the Agency; and

(ii)   committees as may be expedient which shall be charged with specific functions delegated by the Board;

(e)         devise strategies for attracting funds and contributions and implement mechanisms for collecting such funds and contributions and paying them into the account of the Agency;

(f)         submit to the President the annual report and audited accounts of the Agency;

(g)        carry out any other duties as the President may, from time to time, direct.

8. Powers of the Board

The Board shall have power to--

(a)     open and operate ordinary and domiciliary accounts for the Agency in recog-
nised banking institutions in Nigeria;

(b)      enter into research and production partnerships with any company, firm or in-
dividual, as may be necessary, for the performance of the functions of the
Agency, provided that a partnership which is of the value of N50 million or
above shall require the prior approval of the President;

(c)      specify the management system, including financial approval ceilings, for the
officers of the Agency;

(d)     devise and operate a programme of "Volunteers for National Science and En-gineering Infrastructure" for securing the contributions of Nigerian experts who
are resident abroad; and

(e)     do such other things as are necessary for the successful performance of the functions of the Agency.

PART III

Structure of the Agency, etc.

9. Structure of the Agency The Agency shall have-

(a)            a head office at the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja which shall have the fol-
lowing directorates, that is-

(i)     an Administration Directorate, to be headed by the secretary to the Agency;

(ii)    an Engineering Directorate, to be headed by a co-ordinating director for Engineering;

(iii)    a Science Directorate, to be headed by a co-ordinating director for Science;

(iv)   such other directorates as may be required for the proper performance of the functions of the Agency;

(b)              science and engineering infrastructure development complexes, to be established in such places in Nigeria as may be selected by the Agency with the approval of the President;
(c)              specialised research and development institutions, to be established in such places in Nigeria as may be selected by the Agency with the approval of the
President.

10. Establishment of technical advisory committees

(1) The Agency may establish technical advisory committees in areas of science and
engineering, to assist the Agency in various aspects of its responsibilities.

(2) The members of a technical advisory committee shall be appointed by the Agency
and be persons who possess the expertise and the experience in the relevant areas of sci-
ence and engineering.

PART IV

Establishment of science and engineering infrastructure institutions

11. Establishment of institutions

(1) The Agency may, with the approval of the President, by an order published in the
Gazette-

(a)                establish science and engineering infrastructure institutions (in this Act referred
to as "the institutions") which shall be located in such places in Nigeria as may
be selected by the Agency with the approval of the President;

(b)                designate and upgrade an existing institution into a science and engineering
infrastructure institution.

(2) An order establishing an institution under this Act may contain supplementary or
incidental provisions relating to the institution, including provisions for-

(a)               the designation of the institution;

(b)             the field or fields in which the institution is to conduct its work including man-power training where appropriate;

(c)               the transfer to the institution, by mutual agreement, of any existing Federal, State and Local Government facilities;

(d)               the establishment and constitution of a board of directors to manage the affairs of the institution; and

(e)               a suitable association and collaboration of the institution with universities, other institutions of higher learning and commercial industries.

(3) The provisions set out in the Second Schedule to this Act shall apply to an institution established under this section.

[Second Schedule.]

PART V

Staff of the Agency

12. Appointment of principal officers of the Agency

(1) The Agency shall have the following principal officers, that is-

(a)       the secretary to the Agency;

(b)      a co-ordinating director for Engineering;

(c)      a co-ordinating director for Science;

(d)     such other co-ordinating directors as the Board may determine, all of whom
shall be appointed by the Board with the approval of the President.

(2) The principal officers shall hold office in the first instance for a period of five
years and be eligible for re-appointment for such further periods of five years as the
Board may, with the approval of the President, determine.

13. Secretary to the Agency

The secretary to the Agency shall also be the secretary to but not a member of the
Board and shall-

(a)      head the administration directorate of the Agency and be in charge of the gen-
eral administration of the Agency;

(b)      prepare the minutes of meetings of the Board and its committees;

(c)      keep and secure the record of the Board;

(d)      issue notices of meetings of the Board as may be directed by the vice-
chairman;

(e)       be responsible for ensuring the implementation of the decisions of the Board,

subject to the directions of the vice-chairman;

(j)        prepare draft expenditure, estimates and development plans of his directorate;

(g)       have custody of the seal of the Agency; and

(h)       perform such other functions as may be determined by the vice-chairman or the Board, from time to time.

14. Co-ordinating directors

(1) The co-ordinating directors shall assist the vice-chairman in the management of
the Agency.

(2) A co-ordinating director shall be an eminent professional with an adequate practi-

cal experience in the subject area which he co-ordinates.

(3) A co-ordinating director shall-

(a)     head the professional directorate of the Agency which he co-ordinates;

(b)      implement the policies of the Agency as they apply to the directorate which he co-ordinates;

(c)     supervise the work of the scientific and technical directors and subsidiary institutions which are under his directorate, and render regular reports as may be
required by the vice-chairman or the Board, from time to time;

(d)     prepare draft expenditure estimates and development plans of his directorate;

(e)      serve on technical advisory committees of the Agency; and

(j)      perform such other functions as may be determined by the vice-chairman or the
Board, from time to time.

15. Appointment of directors and other members of staff of the Agency

(1) The Board shall appoint for the Agency well-qualified and experienced persons as
directors, to be in charge of technical departments, under the supervision of co-ordinating
directors.

(2) The Board shall appoint, for the Agency, such other members of staff as it may
consider necessary for the performance of the functions set out in this Act.

16. Remuneration of employees of the Agency

The salaries and benefits of all the members of staff of the Agency shall be in accor-
dance with the conditions of service of the Agency as may be approved by the President.

17. Staff regulations, etc.

The Board may make staff regulations and adopt staff conditions of service which are
independent of the civil service of the Federation and which may provide for-

(a)        the remuneration and tenure of office of members of staff of the Agency;

(b)       appointment, promotion, fringe benefits and productivity incentive of members
of staff of the Agency; and

(c)        appeals of members of staff of the Agency against dismissal or other disciplinary measures.

18. Removal and discipline of senior and junior staff

(1) The secretary to the Agency and the co-ordinating directors of the Agency may be
removed from office by the Board with the approval of the President.

(2) Any other senior member of staff of the Agency may be removed from office by
the vice-chairman with the approval of the Board.

(3) The removal from office of junior staff shall be with the approval of the vice-
chairman.

19. Application of the Pensions Act

(1) It is hereby declared that service in the employment of the Agency shall be an ap-
proved service under the Pensions Act, and accordingly, employees of the Agency shall,
in respect of their services be entitled to pensions, gratuities and other retirement benefits
as are prescribed thereunder.

[Cap. P4.]

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) of this section, nothing in this
Act shall prevent the appointment of a person to any office on terms which preclude the
grant of a pension and gratuity in respect of that office.

(3) For the purposes of the application of the Pensions Act, any power exercisable
thereunder by the Minister or authority other than the Federal Government (not being the
power to make regulations under section 23 thereof) is hereby vested in and shall be exercisable by the Agency and not by any other person or authority.

(4) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, the Pensions Act shall in its application
by virtue of subsection (3) of this section to any office, have effect as if the office were in
the public service of the Federation within the meaning of the Constitution of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria 1999.

[Cap. C23.]
PART VI

Financial provisions

20. Fund of the Agency

(1) The Agency shall establish a fund from which shall be defrayed all expenditure
incurred by the Agency for the purposes of this Act.

(2) There shall be paid and credited to the fund-

(a)       1 per cent of the Federation Account in the first instance, to be increased to
3 per cent by the year 2000;

(b)       levy on income or turn-over of commercial companies and firms with turn-over
of N4 million and above, which shall be-

(i)   at the rate of 1/4 per cent in the first instance;

(ii)   collected by the Federal Board of Inland Revenue or by any other suitable means as may be specified by the Agency; and

(iii) credited to the account of the Agency;

(c)        contributions from the organised private sector;

(d)       foreign aid and assistance from bilateral and multilateral agencies;

(e)       fees charged for services rendered by the Agency;

(f)       all sums accruing to the Agency by way of gifts, endowments, bequest or other voluntary contributions by persons and organisations.

21. Expenditure of the Agency

The Agency shall apply the funds at its disposal to--

(a)        the cost of establishing and maintaining the head office of the Agency at the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja;
(b)       pay the emoluments and entitlements of the vice-chairman and other members of the Board and the committees of the Agency;
(c)        pay the personnel, overhead, allowances, benefits and other administrative costs of the Agency;

(d)        the cost of establishing and operating-

(i)     the science and engineering infrastructure development complexes;

(ii)     research and development institutions and other specialised institutions;
(iii)    capital goods production plants; and

(iv)     other research, development and production activities necessary for the

achievement of the objectives of the Agency;

(e)         the tr aining of members of staff of the Agency;

(f)         provide scholarships and awards for specialised training of personnel;

(g)        publicise and promote research results and locally manufactured capital goods for adoption by industry;

(h)       support national scientific bodies and pay annual and other contributions to international scientific organisations to which Nigeria subscribes;

(i)       undertake any other activity in connection with all or any of the functions of  the Agency.

22. Exemption from income tax

All income derived by the Agency from the sources specified in section 20 (2) of this
Act shall be exempt from income tax and all contributions to the fund of the Agency shall
be tax deductible.

23. Capital production income

Subject to the approval of the President, the Agency may invest in the profitable pro-
duction of capital goods by joint venture, partnership, share-holding or as sole proprietor,
as the case may be, and the net incomes so generated shall be paid into the fund of the
Agency.

24. Disposal of surplus funds

The Board may invest any surplus funds in profit-yielding ventures, and notwith-
standing that power, the President may issue to the Agency directives as he may think
necessary as to the disposal of any surplus funds of the Agency.

25. Annual estimates

The Board shall submit to the President, not later than 31 October in each year, its
programme of work and estimates of its income and expenditure for the following year.

26. Accounts and audit

(1) The Board shall keep proper accounts of the Agency and proper records in rela-
tion to those accounts.

(2) The accounts of the Agency shall be audited, not later than six months after the
end of the year to which it relates, by auditors appointed by the Agency from the list and
in accordance with the guidelines supplied by the Auditor-General for the Federation.

27. Annual report

(1) The Agency shall prepare and submit to the President, not later than 30 June in
each year, a report on the activities of the Agency during the immediately preceding year,
and shall include in such report, a copy of the audited accounts of the Agency for that
year and the auditors report thereon.

(2) The Agency shall not, later than 30 September in each year, submit to the Presi-
dent, the annual report of each of its subsidiary institutions for the preceding year.

PART VII

Miscellaneous

28. Offices and premises

(1) For the purpose of providing offices and premises necessary for the performance
of its functions, the Agency may, subject to the Land Use Act-

[Cap. L5.]

(a)      purchase or take on lease any interest in land, building or property;

(b)       build, equip and maintain offices and premises.

(2) The Agency may, subject to the Land Use Act, sell or lease out any land, office or
premises held by it, which is no longer required for the performance of its functions under
this Act.

29. Power to borrow money

(1) The Agency may, from time to time, borrow by overdraft or otherwise such sums
as it may require for the performance of its functions under this Act.

(2) The Agency shall not, without the approval of the President, borrow money which
exceeds, at any time, the limit set by the President.

(3) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, where the sum to be borrowed is in
foreign currency, the Agency shall not borrow the sum without the prior approval of the
President.

(4) For the purposes of this section, any money borrowed by the Agency from any of
its subsidiaries shall be disregarded.

30. Power to accept gifts

(1) The Agency may accept gifts of land, money or other property, upon such terms
and conditions, if any, as may be specified by the person or organisation making the gift.

(2) The Agency shall not accept any gift if the conditions attached by the person or
organisation making the gift are inconsistent with the objectives and functions of the
Agency.

31. Power to give directives

The President may give to the Agency directives of a general character relating to the
policies and functions of the Agency, and the Agency shall comply with such directives.

32. Legal proceedings

(1) No suit shall be commenced against the Agency before the expiration of a period
of one month after written notice of intention to commence the suit shall have been served
upon the Agency by the intending plaintiff or his agent and the notice shall clearly and
explicitly state-

(a)        the cause of action;

(b)     the particulars of the claim;
(c)      the name and place of abode of the intending plaintiff; and
(d)     the relief which he claims

(2) The notice referred to in subsection (1) of this section and any summons, notice or
other document required or authorised to be served upon the Agency under the provisions
of this Act or any other enactment or law, may be served by-

(a)      delivering the same to the vice-chairman; or

(b)      sending it by registered post addressed to the vice-chairman at the head office
of the Agency.

(3) In any action or suit against the Agency, no execution or attachment or process in
the nature thereof shall be issued against the Agency, but any sums of money which may,
by the judgement of the court, be awarded against the Agency shall, subject to any direc-
tives given by the Agency, be paid from the general reserve of the Agency.

33. Repeals and transitional provisions

(1) The National Science and Technology Act and the National Science and Technol-
ogy Fund Act are hereby repealed.

[Cap. 276. L.F.N. 1990.]

(2) Accordingly-

(a)       any research and other institution, established under the National Science and
Technology Act shall be deemed to be a research or other institution estab-
lished under this Act;

(b)       the Board of Trustees of the National Science and Technology Fund, estab-
lished under the National Science and Technology Fund Act, is hereby dis-
solved and the Fund shall cease to exist.

(3) As from the commencement of this Act-

(a)       all assets, funds, resources and other movable and immovable property which
immediately before the commencement of this Act were vested in the Fund,
shall by virtue of this Act and without further assurance be vested in the
Agency;

(b)       all documents and commercialisation projects, research grants and other con-
tractual undertakings of the Board of Trustees of the Fund, dissolved by this
Act shall, by virtue of this Act and without further assurance be vested in the
Agency;

(c)                     the rights, interests, obligations and liabilities of the Fund existing immediately
before the commencement of this Act under any contract or instrument or at
law or in equity shall, by virtue of this Act, be assigned to and vested in the
Agency;

(d) any contract or instrument, as is mentioned in paragraph (c) of this subsection,
shall be of the same force and effect against or in favour of the Agency and
shall be enforceable as fully and effectively as if, instead of the Fund, the said
Agency had been named therein or had been a party thereto.

(4) Any proceeding or cause of action pending or existing or which could have been
taken by or against the Fund, immediately before the commencement of this Act in re-
spect of any right, interest, obligation or liability of the Fund, may be continued, enforced
or taken by or against the Agency as if the Agency and not the Fund had been a party
thereto.

34. Transfer of certain property, etc., to the Agency

(1) As from the commencement of this Act-

(a)       all assets, funds, resources and other movable and immovable property which
immediately before the commencement of this Act were vested in and relate to
the head office of the former Federal Ministry of Science and Technology
shall, by virtue of this Act and without further assurance, be vested in the
Agency;

(b)       all the research institutes, energy research centres, sub-stations, out-stations,
colleges and other dependant projects and bodies, which immediately before

the commencement of this Act were parastatals of the former Federal Ministry
of Science and Technology shall by virtue of this Act and without further as-
surance, be subsidiaries of the Agency.

(2) The Agency may offer appointment, on such terms and conditions as it may de-
termine, to any person employed in the former Federal Ministry of Science and Technol-
ogy and the service of such person under the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology
shall be deemed to have been service under the Agency for pension purposes.

35. Power to make regulations

The Board may, with the approval of the President, make regulations-

(a)       to prescribe methodologies for private-sector payments into the fund of the Agency;

(b)        prescribe the fees to be paid for services rendered by the Agency;

(c)        generally for the purposes of carrying out or giving full effect to the provisions of this Act.

36. Interpretation

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"Agency" means the National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure es-
tablished by section 1 of this Act;

"Board" means the Governing Board of the Agency established by section 2 of this
Act;

"chairman" means the chairman of the Board of the Agency;

''fund'' means the fund of the Agency as established under section 20 of this Act;

"member" means a member of the Board and includes the chairman;

"principal officer" means the co-ordinating directors and the secretary;

"public service" has the meaning assigned to it in the Constitution of the Federal Re-
public of Nigeria;

[Cap. C23.]

"secretary" means the secretary to the Agency, who is also the secretary of the
Board;

"subsidiary" means a semi-autonomous corporate body, with its Board of Directors,
which is supervised by the Agency;

"vice-chairman" means the vice-chairman and chief executive of the Agency.

37. Short title

This Act may be cited as the National Agency for Science and Engineering Infra-
structure Act.