1. Establishment of the National Examinations Council

(1) There is hereby established a body to be known as the National Examinations
Council (in this Act referred to as "the Council").

(2) The Council shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common
seal and may sue and be sued in its corporate name.

2. Establishment and membership of the Governing Board

(1) There is hereby established for the Council a Governing Board which shall con-
sist of-

(a) a chairman;

(b) one person to represent the Federal Ministry of Education;

(c) six persons, one to represent each of the six geo-political zones of the country;

(d) two persons to represent the All Nigeria Conference of Principals of Secondary
Schools;

(e) three persons to represent the Universities in Nigeria in rotation for one term at
a time;

f) one person to represent the Nigeria Employers Consultative Association;

(g) the registrar of the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board or his representa-
tive;

(h) the registrar of the Council;

(i) one person to represent the National Parents Teachers Association (NPT A);
and

(j)  a representative of the Nigerian Educational Research and Development Coun-
cil.

(2) The members of the Board, other than ex-officio members, shall be appointed by
the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, on the recommendation of the Minister.

(3) The provisions of the Schedule to this Act shall have effect with respect to the
proceedings of the Board and the other matters mentioned in the Schedule.

[Schedule.]

3. Tenure of office, etc.

The chairman and other members of the Board, other than ex-officio members-

(a) shall hold office for a period of four years on such terms and conditions as may
be specified in their letters of appointment; and

(b) may be reappointed for one further period of four years and no more.

4. Removal from office

(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 3 of this Act, a member may at any
time be removed from office by the President for inability to discharge the functions of
his office (whether arising from infirmity of mind or body or any other causes or for mis-
conduct).

(2) A member of the Board may resign his appointment by a notice in writing under
his hand, addressed to the President and that member shall, on the date of the receipt of
the notice by the President, cease to be a member of the Board.

5. Emoluments

A member of the Board shall be paid such emoluments, allowances and benefits as
the Minister may, with the approval of the President, from time to time approve.

6. Disclosure of interest

(1) A member of the Board who is directly or indirectly interested in any matter be-
ing deliberated on by the Board or is interested in any matter proposed to be considered
proposed to be made by the Council shall, as soon as possible after the relevant facts have
come to his knowledge, disclose the nature of his interest at a meeting of the Board.

(2) A disclosure under subsection (1) of this section shall be recorded in the mi nutes
of meetings of the Board and the member concerned shall-

(a)               not, after the disclosure, take part in any deliberation or decision of the Board;
and

(b)               be excluded for the purpose of constituting a quorum of any meeting of the
Board for any deliberation or decision, with regard to the subject matter in re-
spect of which his interest is so disclosed.

PART II

Functions and power

7. Functions of the Council

The Council shall be responsible for-

(a)        revising and considering, annually, in the public interest the examinations to be
held for admission into Federal Government colleges and other allied institu-
tions;

(b)        collecting and disseminating information on all matters relating to admission
into Federal Government colleges and other allied institutions;

(c)               the general control and conduct of the National Common Entrance Examina-
tions for admission into Federal Government colleges and other allied institu-
tions;

(d)        developing and administering selection examinations into the Suleja Academy
in accordance with such guidelines as may be approved, from time to time, by
the Minister;

(e)        developing, administering and conducting aptitude tests for all candidates into
Federal Government colleges and other allied institutions;

f         monitoring, collecting and keeping records of continuous assessment in all
Federal Government colleges and other allied institutions and in the Suleja
Academy toward the award of the Junior and Secondary School Certificates;

(g)        the general control of the conduct of the Junior Secondary School Certificate
Examinations in all Federal Government colleges, and other allied institutions
and in the Sujela Academy;

(h)        the general control of the conduct of the internal and external Senior Secon-
dary School Certificate Examinations in Nigeria without prejudice to the ex-
isting powers and functions of the West African Examination Council;

(i)         conducting a Standard National Assessment of Educational Performance at
junior and senior secondary school levels;

(j)         conducting researches leading to national improvement of testing and exami-
nation procedures at junior and senior secondary school levels;

(k)             preparing and submitting to the Minister the annual report on standards of ex-
aminations and such other related matters as the Minister may, from time to
time, require; and

(l)         carrying out such other activities as are expedient for the discharge of all or
any of the functions conferred on the Council under or by this Act.

8. Powers of the Council

The Council shall have power to carry out all the functions assigned to it in section 7
of this Act.

PART III

Registrar and other staff

9. Registrar of the Council

(1) There shall be a registrar of the Council who shall be appointed by the President,
on the recommendation of the Minister.

(2) The registrar shall be the chief executive of the Council, and shall be responsible
for the execution of the policy of the Council, and manage its affairs under its direction.

(3) The registrar shall hold office-

(a)              in the first instance, for a period of five years and may be reappointed for one
further term of three years and no more; and

(b) on such terms as to emoluments and conditions of service as may be specified
in his letter of appointment, and as may, from time to time, be approved by
Minister.

10. Other staff of the Council

(1) The Council may appoint such other persons to be officers and employees of the
Council as the Council may determine to assist the registrar in the exercise of his func-
tions under this Act.

(2) The Council may, by way of transfer or secondment, appoint a person holding an
office in the civil service of the Federation or of a State to fill a staff vacancy in the
Council.

(3) The remuneration of office and conditions of service of the other staff of the
Council shall be determined by the Council with approval of the Minister.

11. Staff regulations

(1) The Council may, subject to the provisions of this Act, make staff regulations
generally to the conditions of service of the staff of the Council and without prejudice to
the generally of the foregoing, such regulations may provide for-

(a) the appointment, promotion, termination, dismissal and disciplinary control of
the staff of the Council; and

(b)                          appeals by those staff against dismissal or other disciplinary measures.

(2) Until such regulations are made under subsection (1) of this section, any in-
strument relating to the conditions of service of the officers in the civil service of the

Federation shall be applicable, with such modifications as may be necessary, to the staff
of the Council.

(3) Staff regulations made under subsection (1) of this section shall not have effect
unless approved by the Minister and when so approved they need not be published in the
Gazette, but the Council shall cause them to be brought to the notice of all persons in
such manner as it may, from time to time, determine.

12. Pensions Act

(1) It is hereby declared that service in the council shall be approved service for pur-
poses of the Pensions Act and, accordingly, officers and employees of the Council shall
be entitled to pensions, gratuities and other retirement benefits as are prescribed under the
Pensions Act.

[Cap. P4.]

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) of this section, nothing in this
Act shall prevent the appointment of a person to any office on terms which preclude the
grant of a pension, gratuity or other retirement benefit in respect of that office.

(3) For the purpose of the application of the provisions the Pensions Act, any power
exercisable by a Minister or other authority of the Federal Government under this Act,
other than the power to make regulations under section 23, is hereby vested in and shall
be exercisable by the Council and not by any other person or authority.

PART IV

Financial provisions

13. Establishment and maintenance of a fund

(1) The Council shall establish and maintain a fund into which shall be paid and
credited all the income accruing to the Council under subsection (2) of this section and
from which shall be defrayed al the expenditure incurred by the Council.

(2) There shall be paid into the fund established pursuant to section (1) of this sec-
tion-

(a) such monies as may from time to time be lent or granted to the Council by the
Government of the Federation or State or local government;

(b) all monies raised for the purposes of the Council by way of gifts, loans, grant-
in-aid, testamentary dispositions or otherwise;

(c) such other monies as may be payable to the Council in the course of the dis-
charge of its functions;

(d) all interest received in respect of monies invested by the Council; and

(e) all other assets as may, from time to time, accrue to the Council.

14. Application of the proceeds of the Fund

(1) The Council may, from time to time, apply the proceeds of the fund established
pursuant to section 13 of this Act-

(a)                           to the cost of administration of the Council;

(b)       for reimbursing members of the Council or of any committee set up by the
Council for such expenses as may be expressly authorised by the Council in
accordance with such rates as may be approved, from time to time, by the
Minister;

(c)        to the payment of salaries, fees or other remuneration or allowances, pensions,
superannuation and gratuities payable to the officers and employees of the
Council;

(d)        to the repayment of any money borrowed under section 13 of this Act or of any
interest payable thereon;

(e)      for the maintenance of any property acquired by or vested in the Council; and

(f) for and in connection with all or any of the functions of the Council under this
Act or any other written law.

(2) The Council may, from time to time, place money standing to its credit in fixed
deposits in such reputable banks as the Council may think necessary or expedient with a
view to generating interest on the money.

15. Annnal estimates, accounts and audit

(1) The Council shall prepare and submit to the Minister, not later than 30 September
of each year or such other time as may be directed by the Minister, accounts and an esti-
mate of its income and expenditure during the succeeding year.

(2) The Council shall keep proper accounts and other records relating thereto, and
shall cause to be prepared, not later than 30 June in each year, a statement of accounts
relating to the last preceding year.

(3) The statement of accounts, together with records relating thereto, shall be certi-
fied by the Council and the accounts shall be audited by the auditors to be appointed by
the Council from the list and in accordance with the guidelines, supplied by the Auditor-
General of the Federation.

16. Annual report

(1) As soon as the accounts of the Council have been audited, the Council shall pre-
pare a report of its activities during the preceding year and shall include in such report a
copy of the audited accounts of the Council and the auditors' report thereon.

(2) The Minister shall, soon after the receipt of the report, present the report to the
Federal Executive Council together with any comments thereon as may be made by him.

17. Power to accept gifts

(1) The Council may accept gifts of land, money or other property on such terms and
conditions, if any, as may be specified by the person making the gift.

(2) The Council may not accept gifts if the conditions attached by the person making
the gift to its acceptance are inconsistent with the functions of the Council under this Act.

18. Powers to borrow

The Council may, with the consent of or in accordance with the authority of the Min-
ister, borrow on such terms and conditions such sums of money as the Council may re-
quire in the exercise of the functions conferred on it under this Act.

PART V

Legal proceedings

19. Limitation of suits against the Council

(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the provisions of the Public Officers Protec-
tion Act shall apply in relation to any suit instituted against an officer or employee of the
Council.

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other enactment, no suit against a
member of the Board or the registrar or any other officer or employee of the Council
done in pursuance or execution of this Act or any enactment or law, or of any public duty
authority in respect of any alleged neglect or default in the execution of this Act or any
other enactment or law, duty or authority, shall lie or be instituted in any court unless it is
commenced-

(a) within three months next after the act, neglect or default complained of; or

(b) in the case of a continuation of damage or injury, within six months next after
the ceasing thereof.

(3) No suit shall be commenced against a member of the Board or the registrar or any
other officer or employee of the Council before the expiration of a period of one month
after written notice of the intention to commence the suit shall have been served on the
Council by the intending plaintiff or his agent.

(4) The notice referred to in subsection (3) of this section shall clearly and explicitly
state the cause of action, the particulars of the claim, the name and place of abode of the
intending plaintiff and the relief which he claims.

20. Service of documents

A notice, summons or other document required or authorised to be served on the
Council under the provisions of this Act or any other enactment or law may be served by
delivering it to the registrar or by sending it by registered post addressed to the registrar
at the principal office of the Council.

21. Restriction on execution against property of the Council

(1) In any action or suit against the Council, no execution or attachment of process in
the nature thereof shall be issued against the Council unless not than three months' notice
of the intention to execute or attach has been given to the Council.

22. Indemnity of members, registrar officers, etc.

A member of the Board or the registrar or any officer or employee of the Council shall
be indemnified out of the assets of the Council against any liability incurred by him in de-
fending any proceeding, whether civil or criminal, if the proceeding is brought against him
in his capacity as a member, registrar or other officer or employees of the Council.

PART VI

Miscellaneous

23. Offices and premises

(1) For the purpose of providing offices and premises necessary for the performance
of its functions under this Act, the Council may-

(a)        subject to the Land Use Act, purchase, take on lease or otherwise acquire any
land; and

[Cap. L5.]

(b)        build, equip and maintain offices and premises.

(2) The Council may, subject to the Land Use Act, sell or lease any land, offices or
premises held by it and no longer required for the performance of its functions under this
Act.

24. Acquisition of land

(1) Whenever there is any hindrance to the acquisition by the Council of any land re-
quired for any purpose of the Council under this Act (including any failure by the Coun-
cil to reach agreement as to the amount to be paid in respect of the acquisition), the Min-
ister may, on the application of the Council and after such inquiry as he may think fit,
declare that the land is required for the service of the Council.

(2) Where a declaration is made under subsection (l) of this section, the land to
which the declaration relates shall be deemed to be land required for a public purpose of
the Federation and, accordingly, shall be acquired under the Land Use Act.

(3) The compensation, if any, payable for the acquisition of any land under this sec-
tion or payable under the Land Use Act for the revocation of any right relating to the
land, as the case may be, shall in the first instance be paid by the Federal Government.

(4) The Council shall refund to the Federal Government any compensation paid un-
der subsection (3) of this section and all incidental expenses incurred by the Federal Gov-
ernment.

25. Authorisation

(1) For the purpose of carrying out the functions conferred on the Council under this
Act, the registrar or any other officer or employee of the Council, authorised on the
Council behalf-

(a)              shall have a right of access to all relevant records of any institution to which
this Act applies; and

(b)              may notice in writing served on any person in charge of any such institution
require that person to furnish or cause to be furnished information on such
matter as may be specified in the notice.

(2) It shall be the duty of any person required to furnish information pursuant to sub-
section (1) of this section to comply with the notice within a reasonable period of time.

26. Power of Minister to give directives

The Minister may give to the Council directives of a general nature with respect to
any of the functions of the Council to comply with such directives or cause them to be
complied with.

27. Transitional provision

(1) At the commencement of this Act, the powers of the National Board for Educa-
tional Measurement over the conduct of examinations, lists, or issuance of certificates
referred to in section 7 of this Act shall, without prejudice to any examinations already
conducted by the Council, be vested in the Council.

(2) The National Board for Educational Measurement Act No. 69 of 1993 is hereby
repealed.

28. Regulations

(1) The Council may, with the approval of the Minister, make regulations generally
for the carrying into effect of the provisions of this Act and without prejudice to the gen-
erality of the foregoing, the regulations may provide for-

(a) the person or categories of persons who may enter for examinations conducted
by the Council;

(b) the conduct of candidates during such examinations;

(c) the obligations of educational institutions involved in presenting candidates for
the examinations conducted by the Council.

(2) Where regulations are made pursuant to subsection (1) of this section, it shall be
necessary, for their validity, to cause them to be published in the Gazette but the Council
shall bring them to the notice of such interested persons (including the officers and em-
ployees of the Council) in such manner as the Council may, from time to time, determine.

29. Interpretation

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"allied institutions" includes the Command Secondary School, Air Force Secondary
Schools and such private secondary schools as may be admitted by the Council, from
time to time, to undertake any of the examinations conducted by the Council;

"Board" means the National Examinations Council established by section (2) of this
Act;

"Council" means the National Examinations Council established by section I of this
Act;

"chairman" means the chairman of the Board;

"examination" means any examination held or conducted by or on behalf of the
Council or on behalf of any other body by the Council pursuant to this Act;

"external candidates" means candidates who in their capacity as individual students
sit for the examinations held usually in the months of November and December leading
to the award of Senior Secondary School Certificates;

"external Senior Secondary School Certificate Examinations" means the exami-
nations that candidates as individual students sit for which are usually held in the months
of November and December leading to the award of Senior Secondary School Certifi-
cates;

"internal candidates" means candidates who in their capacity as students of particu-
lar secondary schools sit for the examinations held usually in the months of May and
June leading to the award of Senior Secondary School Certificates;

"internal Senior Secondary School Certificate Examinations" means the exami-
nations that candidates as students of particular secondary schools sit for which are held
usually in the months of May and June leading to the award of Senior Secondary School
Certificates;

"member" means any member of the Board and includes the chairman;

"Minister" means the Minister changed with responsibility for matters relating to
education;

"registrar" means the registrar of the Council appointed pursuant to section 9 of this
Act.

30. Citation

This Act may be cited as the National Examinations Council (NECO) (Establishment)
Act, 2002.