5. Functions of the Commission

The Commission shall-

(a)              deal with all matters relating to the protection of human rights as guaranteed
by the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999, the African
Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights, the United Nations Charter and the
Universal Declaration on Human Rights and other International Treaties on
human rights to which Nigeria is a signatory;

(b)        monitor and investigate all alleged cases of human rights violation in Nigeria
and make appropriate recommendation to the President for the prosecution and
such other actions as it may deem expedient in each circumstance;

(c)              assist victims of human rights violation and seek appropriate redress and
remedies on their behalf;

(d)        undertake studies on all matters pertaining to human rights and assist the
Federal Government in the formulation of appropriate policies on the guarantee of
human rights;

(e)         publish, from time to time, reports on the state of human rights protection in
Nigeria;

(f)       organise local and international seminars, workshops and conferences on
human rights issues for public enlightrnent;

(g)        liaise and co-operate with local and international organisations on human
rights with the purpose of advancing the promotion and protection of human rights;

(h)        participate in all international activities relating to the promotion and protection of
human rights;

(i)                maintain a library, collect data and disseminate information and materials on
human rights generally; and

(j)                carry out all such other functions as are necessary or expedient for the
performance of its functions under this Act.

The Commission shall have power to-

(a)        do all things which by this Act or any other enactment are required or permitted
to be done by the Commission; and

(b)        do such other things as are necessary or expedient for the performance of its
functions under this Act.

PART III

Staff

(1) There shall be for the Commission an executi ve secretary, who shall be the chief
executive of the Commission and be appointed by the President, on the recommendation
of the Attorney-General of the Federation.

(2) The executive secretary shall hold office for a term of five years in the first instance
on such terms and conditions as the President, may, on the recommendation of the
Attorney-General of the Federation, determine and may be re-appointed for one further
term of five years and no more.

(3) Subject to such general direction as the Council may give, the executive secretary
shall be responsible for the day-to-day administration of the Commission and the
implementation of the decisions of the Council.

(4) The executive secretary shall perform the functions of keeping the record of proceedings
and decisions of the Council and such other functions as the Council may, from
time to time, direct.

(1) The Council shall have power to appoint directly, and either on transfer or on
secondment from any public service in the Federation, such number of employees as
may, in the opinion of the Council, be required to assist the Commission in the discharge
of any of its functions under this Act, and shall have power to pay to persons so employed
such remuneration (including allowances) as the Council may determine.

(2) The terms and conditions of service (including terms and conditions as to remuneration,
allowances, pensions, gratuities and other benefits) of the persons employed by
the Commission shall be as determined by the Council from time to time.

(3) The Council may engage such consultants and advisers as it may require for the
proper and efficient discharge of the functions of the Commission.

The Commission may, subject to the provisions of this Act, make staff regulations
relating generally to the conditions of service of the employees of the Commission and
without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, such regulations may provide for-

(a)        the appointment, promotion and disciplinary control (including dismissal) of
employees of the Commission; and

(b)        appeals by such employees against dismissal or other disciplinary measures.

10. Conditions of service

The Commission shall, with the approval of the Attorney-General of the Federation,
determine its conditions of service, including pensions and gratuities, as are appropriate
for its employees.

11. Pensions

(I) It is hereby declared that service in the Commission is a scheduled service and
shall be deemed to be pensionable under the Pensions Act and, accordingly, employees of
the Commission shall in respect of their service in the Commission, be entitled to
pensions, gratuities and other retirement benefits as are prescribed thereunder.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (I) of this section, nothing in this
Act shall prevent the appointment of a person to any office on terms which preclude the
grant of a pension or gratuity in respect of that office.

PART IV

Financial provisions

12. Fund of the Commission

(I) The Commission shall establish and maintain a fund which shall be applied
towards the discharge of its functions under this Act.

(2) There shall be paid and credited to the fund established pursuant to subsection (I)
of this section-

(a)        such sums as may be provided by the Government of the Federation for the
Commission;

(b)        any fees charged for services rendered by the Commission; and

(c)        all other sums accruing to the Commission by way of gifts, testamentary
dispositions, endowments and contributions from philanthropic persons and
organisations or otherwise however.

13. Power to accept gifts

(I) The Commission may accept gifts of land, money or other property on such terms
and conditions, if any, as may be specified by the person or organisation making the gift.

(2) The Commission shall not accept any gift if the conditions attached by the person
or organisation making the gift are inconsistent with the functions of the Commission.

14. Borrowing power, etc.

(I) The Council may, with the consent or in accordance with any specific authority
given by the Attorney-General of the Federation, borrow by way of loan or overdraft
from any source approved by the Attorney-General of the Federation, such specified
amount of money as may be required by the Commission for meeting its obligations and
discharging its functions under this Act.

(2) The Council may, subject to the provisions of this Act and the conditions of any
trust created in respect of any property, invest all or any of its funds with the like consent
or general authority of the Attorney-General of the Federation.

(3) The Council may invest any surplus funds of the Commission in securities prescribed by
the Trustee Investments Act or such other securities as may, from time to time,
be approved by the Attorney-General of the Federation.

(4) Subject to the provisions of the Land Use Act, and any special or general direction which
the Attorney-General of the Federation may give in that behalf, the Council
may acquire or lease any land required for its purpose under this Act.

[Cap. L5.]

15. Annual estimates, accounts and audit

(1) The Council shall cause to be prepared, not later than 30th September in each
year, an estimate of the expenditure and income of the commission during the next
succeeding year and when prepared they shall be submitted, through the Attorney-General of
the Federation, to the Federal Executive Council for approval.

(2) The Council shall cause to be kept proper accounts and proper records in relation
thereto and when certified by the Council such account shall be audited as provided in
subsection (3) ofthis section.

(3) The accounts of the Commission shall be audited by auditors appointed from the
list of auditors and in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Auditor-General for
the Federation and the fees of the auditors and the expenses for the audit generally shall
be paid from the funds of the Commission.

16. Annual reports

The Council shall, not later than six months after the end of each year, submit,
through the Attorney-General of the Federation, to the President a report on the activities
of the Commission and its administration during the immediately preceding year and
shall include in the report the audited accounts of the Commission and the auditor's
comments thereon.

PART V

Miscellaneous

17. Power of the Attorney-General of the Federation to give directives

Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Attorney-General of the Federation may give
to the Council such directives of a general nature with regard to the exercise by the
Council of its functions under this Act.

18. Regulations

The Attorney-General of the Federation may make such regulations as he deems to be
necessary or expedient for giving full effect to the provisions of this Act.

19. Interpretation

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"Commission" means the National Human Rights Commission established under
section I (I) of this Act;

"Council" means the Governing Council established for the Commission under sec-
tion 2 (I) of this Act;

"President" means the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.

20. Short title

This Act may be cited as the National Human Rights Commission Act.