6. Investment

(I) The Board shall invest in Nigeria such assets of the Fund as it may, from time to time, determine.

(2) Subject to subsection (3) of this section, the Board shall not invest in properties and securities except-

(a)        securities specified under the Trustee Investments Act;
(b)        shares in other securities of a society registered under any law relating to co-operatives;

(c)        loans to building societies approved by the Minister of Finance;

(d)       loans on real property, machinery and plant in Nigeria;

(e)        cash on deposit in or bills of exchange accepted by licensed banks;

(f)         such other securities as may be prescribed by order made by the President.

(3) The Board shall ensure that not less than 25 per cent of the total assets invested at any time pursuant to this section, is invested in the securities mentioned in paragraph (a)
of subsection (2) of this section.

(4) Subject to the other provisions of this section, the Board may, from time to time, subject to the provisions of any relevant enactment by deed under its seal, sell or other-
wise dispose of any property or security acquired by or vested in the Board upon such terms as it may deem fit.

7. Penalty for unauthorised levy or contribution

(I) Any person who, without lawful authority, levies or accepts any contribution from any other person, purporting such levy or contribution to be made for the purposes
of this Act, shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of #5,000 or to a sum equal to twice the value of the collections received, whichever is the greater, or to
imprisonment for a term of two years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(2) The court shall make an order directing that the fine imposed under the provisions of subsection (l) of this section be paid over to the Board.

(3) Where an offence under this Act is committed by a body corporate or firm or other association of individuals-

(a)       every director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate;

(b)       every partner or officer of the firm;

(c)        every person concerned in the management of the affairs of the firm; or

(d)       every person who was purporting to act in any such capacity as aforesaid,

shall severally be guilty of that offence and liable to be proceeded against and punished for the offence as if he has himself committed the offence unless he proves that the act or
omission constituting the offence took place without his knowledge, consent or connivance.

(4) In this section, "court" means Federal High Court.

8. Exemption from tax

(1) The Board shall be exempt from the payment of income tax on any income accruing from investments made by the Board or otherwise howsoever and, accordingly,
the provisions of any enactment relating to the taxation of companies or trust funds, shall not apply to the Board or the Fund.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of any enactment or law relating to the taxation of individuals, any donation made by any person shall, for the purposes of any enactment or
law, be exempted from income tax.

9. Accounts

(l) The Board shall keep proper accounts in respect of monies forming part of the Fund and proper records in relation thereto.

(2) The Board shall open and operate such bank accounts in the Central Bank of Nigeria or any of its branches or such other bank as the Board may, from time to time, de-termine.

(3) For the purpose of the withdrawal of funds from any bank account of the Fund, the Secretary/Treasurer and any other member authorised by the Board in that behalf,
shall be the signatories and such withdrawals shall be regulated in such manner as the Board may, from time to time, determine.

(4) The accounts of the Fund for each year shall be audited within six months after the end of that year.

10. Annual report

The Board shall prepare and submit to the executive chairman, not later than three
months after the end of each year, a report of the preceding year, containing-

(a)              an account of its operations and transactions throughout the preceding year;
and

(b)              a statement of the accounts of the Fund for the preceding year, audited in accordance with section 9 (4) of this Act.

11. Interpretation

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"Board" means the Board of Trustees of the Nigerian Children's Trust Fund established by section 2 of this Act;

"chairman" means the chairman of the Board of Trustees;

"Fund" means the Nigerian Children's Trust Fund set up by section I of this Act;

"member" means any member of the Board and includes the chairman.

12. Short title

This Act may be cited as the Nigerian Children's Trust Fund Act.