1. Establishment of the Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Corporation
(l) There is hereby established a body to be known as the Nigerian Agricultural In-
surance Corporation (in this Act referred to as "the Corporation") which shall be a body
corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal.
(2) The Corporation may sue or be sued in its corporate name and may, for the pur-
poses of its functions under this Act and subject to the Land Use Act, hold, acquire and
dispose of any property movable or immovable.
[Cap. L5.]
2. Establishment and composition of the Board of Directors, etc.
(1) There is hereby established for the Corporation a governing board to be known as
the Board of Directors (in this Act referred to as "the Board").
(2) The Board shall consist of-
(a) a chairman;
(b) the Managing Director of the Corporation;
(c) the Executive Directors of the Corporation;
(d) the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria or his representati ve;
(e) the Permanent Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture or his repre-
sentative;
if) the Commissioner of Insurance to represent the Federal Ministry of Finance or
his representative; and
(g) two persons who have experience in agricultural production to represent
farmers.
(3) The chairman and other members of the Board who are not ex-officio members
shall-
(a) be appointed by the President; and
(b) hold office for a period of four years and be eligible for re-appointment for one
further period of four years.
(4) The supplementary provisions set out in the Schedule to this Act shall have effect
with respect to the proceedings of the Board and the other matters contained therein.
[Schedule.]
PART II
Functions and powers
3. Functions of the Corporation
Subject to the provisions of this Act, the functions of the Corporation are-
N89-3 [Issue I]

-- 3 of 16 --

CAP. N89
Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Corporation Act
(a) to implement, manage and administer the Agricultural Insurance Scheme, es-
tablished by section 6 of this Act;
(b) to subsidise the premiums chargeable on selected crops and livestock policies
from the grants obtained from the Federal and State Governments and the Fed-
eral Capital Territory, Abuja;
(c) to encourage institutional lenders to lend more for agricultural production
having regard to the added security for their loans provided by the Corpora-
tion;
(d) to promote increased agricultural production generally in order to minimise or
eliminate the need for ad hoc assistance previously provided by governments
during agricultural disasters;
(e) to carryon insurance business on normal commercial basis and without subsi-
dies on premiums as insurers of buildings, machineries, equipment and other
items which form part of the total investment on farms and to re-insure this as-
pect of its operations through well established channels with reputable re-
insurance companies;
(j) to operate other types of insurance business as may be permitted by the Com-
missioner of Insurance at competitive premiums; and
(g) to do anything or to enter into any transaction which in the opinion of the
Board is calculated to facilitate the due performance of its functions under this
Act.
4. Functions of the Board
The Board shall be responsible for-
(a) managing and superintending the affairs of the Corporation;
(b) for the overall policy and general administration and shall act in the name of
the Corporation;
(c) providing effective liaison between the Corporation and the Federal Govern-
ment;
(d) formulating policies and guidelines for operating the Agricultural Insurance
Scheme and ensuring its implementation;
(e) working closely with the management of the Corporation to ensure smooth
operation of the affairs of the Corporation;
(j) deciding on and approving the borrowing power and credit limits of the Corpo-
ration;
(g) making policy decisions on the insurance operation and on the welfare of the
employees of the Corporation;
(h) approving annual reports and statement of accounts of the Corporation;
(i) appointing and approving fees for auditors; and
(j) carrying out such other activities connected or incidental to the other functions
of the Board.
[Issue IJ N89 - 4

-- 4 of 16 --

CAP.N89
Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Corporation Act
5. Powers of the Board
The Board shall have power-
(a) to acquire offices and other premises for the use of the Corporation;
(b) to fix terms and conditions of service including remuneration of the employees
of the Corporation;
(c) establish such zonal and other offices of the Corporation as it may deem neces-
sary for the proper performance of its functions; and
(d) to do such other things as are necessary for the successful performance of its
functions under this Act.
PART III
The Agricultural Insurance Scheme
6. Establishment of the Agricultural Insurance Scheme, etc.
(1) There is hereby established a scheme to be known as the Agricultural Insurance
Scheme (in this Act referred to as "the Scheme").
(2) The general objective of the Scheme is to protect the Nigerian farmer from the ef-
fects of natural hazards by introducing measures which shall ensure an indemnity suffi-
cient to keep the farmer in business, but specifically the objectives of the Scheme are
to-
(a) provide financial support to farmers where loss to crops or livestock arises
from natural hazards;
(b) induce the provision of credit by financial institutions to farmers;
(c) promote agricultural production; and
(d) minimize or eliminate the need for Government to provide ad hoc assistance to
farmers during agricultural disasters.
7. Qualifying cover
The Scheme shall cover-
(a) such crops, livestock and other agricultural items and enterprises, as the Cor-
poration may, from time to time, determine;
(b) on a commercial basis only, farm buildings, machinery and equipment which
form part of the investment on the farm;
(c) such other items as the Corporation may, from time to time, deem necessary
for giving effect to the objectives of the Scheme.
8. Risks to be covered
(l) The risks to be covered are-
(a) in the case of crops, damage or loss caused by-
(i) fire; or
(ii) lightning; or
N89-5 [Issue I(

-- 5 of 16 --

CAP. NSlJ
Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Corporation Act
(iii) windstorm; or
(iv) flood; or
(v) drought; or
(vi) pests; or
(vii) invasion of farm by wild animal; and
(b) in the case of Iivestock, death or inj ury caused by-
(i) accident; or
(ii) disease; or
(iii) fire; or
(iv) lightning; or
(v) storm; or
(vi) flood.
(2) A person insured under the Scheme shall satisfy such conditions relating to good
husbandry as may be laid down, from time to time, by the Corporation.
9. Rate of premium
(I) The rate of insurance premium payable under the Scheme by farmers shall be
such percentage of the sum assured as the Corporation may, from time to time, determine
having regard to the pure risk premium, reserve premium and administrative loading.
(2) The Corporation shall subsidise the premium payable under subsection (I) of this
section at such rate not exceeding 50 per cent as it may, from time to time, determine.
(3) This subsidy on premium referred to in subsection (2) of this section shall-
(a) be paid to the Corporation by the Federal Government and the respective State
Governments in the proportion of 37.5 per cent and 12.5 per cent respectively;
and
(b) for a particular year, be paid within the first quarter of the following year.
(4) Where a State Government defaults in its payment to the Corporation, the Federal
Government shall cause the amount to be deducted from funds due to the defaulting State
and remitted direct to the Corporation.
10. Indemnity
Indemnity shall be based-
(a) in the case of crops, on approved input cost up to the time the loss occurred but
if some crops were salvaged then, less the value of the crops actually har-
vested;
(b) in the case of livestock, on a valuation table to be prepared by the Corporation
for each class of stock; and
in the case of crops, livestock and other agricultural items specified, from time
to time, by the corporation, on agreed value of the crops, livestock or item.
(c)
[Issue IJ N89-6

-- 6 of 16 --

CAP. N89
Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Corporation Act
11. Requirement for indemnity,
A farmer shall not qualify for indemnity under this Act unless-
(a) the insurance cover was obtained before the damage or loss occurred;
(b) he has a valid insurance cover at the time of damage or loss;
(c) he followed laid down practice for crop and livestock production;
(d) the cause of damage or loss was one of the risks covered by the insurance pol-
icy;
(e) the notitication of the damage or loss was made within the stipulated time; and
if) he has satisfied such other conditions as the Corpor.ation may, from time to
time, specify.
12. Bearing of losses
The Corporation shall bear losses up to 200 per cent of its premium income in each
class of insurance covered under section 7 of this Act, and the Federal Government shall
pay for all losses above 200 per cent of the premium income.
13. Participating farmer
A farmer whose crop or livestock is covered by section 7 of this Act may take out an
insurance cover under the Scheme but where the farmer is also a beneficiary of an agri-
cultural loan or credit from the Government, a bank or other financial institution (in this
Act referred to as "lending institution") he shall take out an insurance cover under the
Scheme.
14. Remittance of premiums by lending institutions, etc.
(I) A lending institution shall, subject to the provisions of this Act and other direc-
tives that may be given by the Board, deduct the insurance premium due from the loan or
credit at source and remit same to the Corporation not later than 30 days from the date of
disbursement of part or the whole of the loan or credit.
(2) A lending institution which fails to comply with the provisions of subsection (I)
of this section shall pay the premium which is due from and payable by the farmer under
that subsection and the amount of the premium so unpaid shall-
(a) notwithstanding any other enactment, be a first charge on the property of the
lending institution; and
(b) be a debt due to the Corporation and the Corporation may sue for and recover
from the lending institution the amount in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(3) In an action brought under subsection (2) (b) of this section, the production by the
Corporation of a certificate signed by the Managing Director setting out the name of the
defendant and the amount of the premium due shall be sufficient evidence of the amount
so due and sufficient authority for the court to give judgment for the said amount.
N89-7 [Issue I]

-- 7 of 16 --

CAP. N89
Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Corporation Act
PARTlY
Staff of the Corporation
15. Managing Director and Executive Directors
(I) There shall be appointed, for the Corporation, by the President, the following of-
ficers, that is-
(a) a Managing Director, who shall be the chief executive of the Corporation and
be responsible for the day-to-day management of the affairs of the Corpora-
tion; and
(b) such number of Executive Directors, not exceeding four, as he may determine
who shall perform such duties as may be assigned to them, from time to time,
by the Board or Managing Director.
(2) A person appointed as the Managing Director or an Executive Director shall not,
while holding that office, qualify to hold any office as a director in any bank, corporation,
company or any other establishment without the approval of the Board.
(3) The Managing Director and Executive Directors appointed pursuant to the provi-
sions of this section shall hold office for a period of four years and shall be eligible for re-
appointment for a further period of four years.
(4) Subject to subsection (3) of this section, the Managing Director and Executive Di-
rectors shall each hold office on such terms and conditions as may be specified in their
letters of appointment.
16. Secretary and other staff of the Corporation
(I) The Board shall appoint a Secretary who shall-
(a) be responsible to the Managing Director;
(b) keep the records and conduct the correspondence of the Board; and
(c) perform such other duties as the Board or the Managing Director may, from
time to time, determine.
(2) The Board shall appoint such number of officers and other persons as employees
of the Corporation as may appear expedient and necessary to the Board for the proper and
efficient conduct of the business and functions of the Corporation.
(3) The terms and conditions of service (including remuneration, allowances and
pension benefits) of the secretary and other employees of the Corporation shall be as may
be determined by the Board.
17. Pensions
(I) The service of a person employed by the Corporation shall be approved service
for the purposes of the Pensions Act and, accordingly, officers and other persons em-
ployed by the Corporation shall in respect of their service therein be entitled to pension,
gratuities and other retirement benefits as are prescribed thereunder.
[Cap. P4.]
[Issue I] N89-8

-- 8 of 16 --

CAP.N89
Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Corporation Act
(2) Nothing in subsection (I) of this Act shall prevent the appointment of a person to
an office on terms which preclude the grant of a pension and gratuity in respect of that
office.
(3) For the purpose of the application of the provisions of the Pensions Act, a power
exercisable thereunder by a Minister or other authority of the Federal Government (not
being power to make regulations under section 23 thereof) is hereby vested in and shall
be exercisable by the Corporation and not by any other person or authority.
PART V
Reserve funds
18. Reserve fund
(I) There is hereby established for the Corporation for payment of indemnities under
the Scheme a reserve fund into which shall be paid an initial authorised capital of N200
million contributed by the following institutions in the percentage appropriate thereto-
(a) the Federal Government, 70 per cent;
(b) the State Government and Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, 10 per cent;
(c) the Central Bank of Nigeria, 5 per cent;
(d) the commercial banks, 6 per cent;
(e) the merchant banks, 3 per cent;
(j) the development banks, 2 per cent;
(g) the insurance companies, 2 per cent; and
(h) the oil companies, 2 per cent.
(2) A contributor shall pay its contribution over a period of four years commencing
from such year and in such manner as the Corporation, with the approval of the Minister,
shall specify.
(3) The Corporation shall have the power-
(a) to sue in a High Court for a contribution which remains unpaid within a period
of ninety days from the date it is demanded by the Corporation; and
(b) to charge a contributor an additional sum of N 1,000 for every day in which a
contribution remains unpaid after the same period.
(4) The Corporation may invest money from the reserve fund not immediately re-
quired in Federal Government securities or in such other securities as the Board may,
from time to time, determine.
19. General reserve fund
Without prejudice to the provisions of any enactment requiring the establishment of
technical reserves by a registered insurer, the Corporation shall establish and maintain a
general reserve fund out of the profits of the Corporation for meeting contingencies, de-
preciation of assets, for the liquidation of any debt or liability of the Corporation and for
such purposes as the Board may consider necessary for the proper functioning of the
Corporation under this Act.
N89-9 [Issue I]

-- 9 of 16 --

CAP.N89
Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Corporation Act
PART VI
Financial provisions
20. Share capital of Corporation, etc.
(I) The share capital of the Corporation shall, subject to subsection (2) of this sec-
tion, be N9,OOO,OOOdivided into 9 million shares of one naira each.
(2) The shares shall on the commencement of this Act, be deemed to be subscribed
for, issued, and called up in full; and payment in respect of the call up shall be made by
the holder of the shares at such times and in such manner as the President may direct.
(3) The Minister may, from time to time, with the approval of the President, increase
the share capital of the Corporation; and as soon as may be after an increase, the Board
may make calls for the additional shares on such terms and conditions as the Board may
determine.
(4) All the shares in the Corporation shall be taken up by the Federal Government,
and shall subject to subsections (I) and (2) of this section, be paid for by that Govern-
ment.
(5) The Accountant-General of the Federation shall, when authorised under this sub-
section by the Minister, charge to and issue out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the
Federation any sum required for making payment for shares in the Corporation taken up
by the Federal Government.
21. Liability of shareholder limited
The liability of the holder of shares in the Corporation shall be limited to the amount,
if any, unpaid on the shares held by the holder.
22. Fund of the Corporation
( I) The Corporation shall establish a fund from which shall be defrayed all expendi-
ture incurred by the Corporation.
(2) There shall be paid and credited into the fund-
(a) all interests received in respect of moneys invested by the Corporation;
(b) premiums collected from policy-holders;
(c) all moneys raised for the purposes of the Corporation by way of gifts, loans,
grants-in-aid, testamentary dispositions or otherwise;
(d) moneys borrowed from any source approved by the Board;
(e) such other moneys as may, from time to time, accrue to the Corporation.
23. Expenditure of the Corporation
The Corporation may, from time to time, apply the proceeds of the fund established in
pursuance of section 22 (I) of this Act-
(a) to the cost of administration of the Corporation;
[Issue I] N89 - 10

-- 10 of 16 --

CAP.N89
Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Corporation Act
(b) for paying or reimbursing members of the Board or of any committee set up by
the Board for expenses as may be expressly authorised by the Board;
(c) to the payment of the salaries, fees or other remuneration, allowances, pen-
sions and gratuities payable to the officers and other employees of the Corpo-
ration;
(d) for the maintenance of any property vested in the Corporation;
(e) all expenses incurred on behalf of the Corporation; and
(j) for and in connection with all or any of the functions of the Corporation or the
Board.
24. Accounts and audit
(1) The Corporation shall keep proper accounts and proper records in relation thereto
and shall, in respect of each financial year, prepare a balance sheet, a profit and loss ac-
count, revenue accounts and other statements and abstracts, in accordance with the re-
quirements of the Insurance Act.
[Cap. 117.]
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by auditors appointed annually
from the list and in accordance with the guidelines supplied by the Auditor-General for
the Federation; and the cost of the audit shall be paid from the fund of the Corporation.
(3) The auditors shall, on completion of the audits of the accounts of the Corporation
for each financial year, prepare and submit to the Board the following two reports, that
is-
(a) a general report setting out the observation and recommendations of the audi-
tors on the financial affairs of the Corporation for that year and on any other
important matters which the auditors may consider necessary to bring to the
knowledge of the general public; and
(b) a detailed report containing the observations and recommendations of the
auditors on all aspects of the operations of the Corporation for that year.
25. Annual report
The Corporation shall prepare and submit to the President through the Minister, not
later than 30 June in each year, a report in such form as he may direct on the activities of
the Corporation during the immediately preceding year, and shall include in such report a
copy of the audited accounts of the Corporation for that year and the Auditor-General's
report thereon.
PART VII
Miscellaneous
26. Limitation of suit against the Corporation
(1) Notwithstanding anything in any other enactment, no suit against the Corporation,
the Managing Director, Executive Director or any officer or other employees of the Cor-
poration for any act done-
N89 - II [Issue I)

-- 11 of 16 --

CAP. N89
Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Corporation Act
(a) in pursuance or execution or intended execution of this Act or any other en-
actment or law, or of any public duties or authority; or
(b) in respect of any alleged neglect or default in the execution of such enactment
or law, duties or authority,
shall lie or be instituted in any court unless it is commenced within twelve months next
after the act, neglect or default complained of or, in the case of continuance of damage or
injury, within twelve months next after the ceasing thereof.
(2) No suit shall be commenced against the Corporation before the expiration of a pe-
riod of one month after written notice of intention to commence the suit shall have been
served on the Corporation by the intending plaintiff or his agent.
(3) A notice of intention to commence a suit shall clearly and explicitly state the
cause of action, the particulars of the claim, the name and place of abode of the intending
plaintiff and the relief which he claims.
27. Services of documents
The notice referred to in section 26 (2) of this Act and any summons, notice or other
document required or authorised to be served on the Corporation under the provisions of
this Act or any other enactment or law may be served by-
(a) delivering it to the chairman or the Managing Director of the Corporation; or
(b) by sending it by registered post addressed to the Managing Director at the
principal office of the Corporation.
28. Restriction on execution against the property of the Corporation
In an action or a suit against the Corporation, no execution or attachment or process in
the nature thereof shall be issued against the Corporation, but a sum of money which may
by the judgment of the court be awarded against the Corporation shall, subject to a direc-
tion given by the court where notice of appeal has been given by the Corporation in re-
spect of the judgment, be paid by the Corporation from the general reserve fund of the
Corporation.
29. Indemnity of officers and other employees of the Corporation
The Managing Director and every Executive Director, agent, auditor, secretary and
other officer or employee for time being of the Corporation shall be indemnified out of
the assets of the Corporation against a liability incurred by him in defending any pro-
ceeding, whether civil or criminal, in which judgment is given in his favour, or in which
he is acquitted, if the proceeding is brought against him in his capacity as Managing Di-
rector, Executive Director, agent, auditor, secretary or other officer or employee of the
Corporation.
30. Corporation not to be exempt from taxation, etc.
(I) Subject to subsection (2) of the section, the Corporation shall be liable to taxation
under any applicable law, including liability for any duty, rate, levy or other charge what-
soever, whether general or local properly levied and payable.
[Issue I) N89 - 12

-- 12 of 16 --

CAP. N89
Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Corporation Act
(2) Nothing in this section shall be construed as imposing liabilities for company in-
come tax upon the Corporation until such time as the amount in the general reserve fund
of the Corporation is for the first time equal to twice the amount of the paid-up capital of
the Corporation.
31. Extended application of Insurance Act
The Insurance Act shall apply to the Corporation in its commercial insurance business
to the same extent as it applies to insurers under that Act and accordingly, and in so far as
the provisions of the Insurance Act are not inconsistent with those of this Act, the Corpo-
ration shall, where applicable, comply with the requirements of that Act as if the Corpo-
ration were an insurer registered pursuant to that Act, and that Act shall in relation to the
Corporation have effect and be construed accordingly.
[Cap. 117.)
32. Liquidation
The Corporation shall not be placed in liquidation except pursuant to the provisions of
an enactment in that behalf and then in such manner as the enactment may specify.
33. Dissolution of Agricultural Insurance Company Limited, etc.
(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of the Companies and Allied Matters Act, the
Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Company Limited (in this Act referred to as "the Com-
pany") is hereby dissolved and, accordingly, its Board of Directors is also consequen-
tially dissolved.
[Cap. C20.)
(2) As from the commencement of this Act-
(a) every person employed by the Company other than under a contract, shall be
transferred to and be deemed to be employed by the Corporation;
(b) any item insured by the Company shall be deemed to be insured under the cor-
responding provision of this Act;
(c) all assets, funds, resources and other movable and immovable property vested
in the Company shall, by virtue of this Act and without further assurance, be
vested in the Corporation;
(d) the rights, interests, obligations and liabilities of the Company existing imme-
diately before the commencement of this Act under any contract or instrument
or at law or in equity shall, by virtue of this Act and without further assurance,
be assigned to and vested in the Corporation;
(e) any contract or instrument as is mentioned in paragraph (d) of this subsection,
shall be of the same force and effect against or in favour of the Corporation,
and shall be enforceable as fully and effectively as if, instead of the Company,
the said Corporation had been named therein or had been a party thereto.
(3) A proceeding or cause of action pending or existing or which could have been
taken by or against the Company, immediately before the commencement of this Act in
respect of any right, interest, obligation or liability of the Company, may be continued,
enforced or taken by or against the Corporation as if the Corporation and not the Com-
pany had been a party thereto.
N89-13 [Issue I]

-- 13 of 16 --

CAP. N89
Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Corporation Act
34. Regulations
The Corporation may, with the approval of the Minister, make regulations and rules
as arc necessary to give full effect to the provisions of this Act and shall in particular
make regulations for prescribing-
(a) the unit of insurance applicable to the Scheme;
(b) the procedure for collecting the premiums payable under the Scheme;
(c) procedure for loss assessment and settlement;
(d) the manner and condition subject to which the Corporation may enter into in-
surance and reinsurance contracts;
(e) the premiums and commission rates and terms and conditions to be offered by
the Corporation in connection with its commercial insurance or reinsurance
business.
35. Interpretation
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-
"chairman" means the chairman of the Board;
"Corporation" means the Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Corporation established
by section I of this Act;
"insured" means the individuals or corporate bodies whether self financed or the
beneficiaries of institutional agricultural credit granted insurance cover by the Corpora-
tion;
"lending institution" means an organisation giving credit for agricultural production
and includes a bank and non-bank financing agency;
"Managing Director" means the Managing Director of the Corporation appointed
pursuant to section 4 of this Act;
"Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibility for matters relating to
agriculture;
"reserved fund" means the reserve fund established by section 18of this Act;
"secretary" means the secretary of the Board;
"subsidy" means the amount by which an insurance premium is reduced by the Cor-
poration under this Act.
36. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Corporation Act.
[Issue I] N89- 14

-- 14 of 16 --

CAP.N89
Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Corporation Act