1. Vesti ng of petroleum in the State
(1) The entire ownership and control of all petroleum in, under or upon any lands to
which this section applies shall be vested in the State.
(2) This section applies to all land (including land covered by water) which-
(a) is in Nigeria; or
(b) is under the territorial waters of Nigeria; or

-- 1 of 147 --

(c) forms part of the continental shelfs; or
[1998 No. 22.]
(d) forms part of the Exclusive Economic Zone of Nigeria.
(3) In this section references to "territorial waters" are references to the expression as
defined in the Territorial Waters Act.
[Cap. T5.]
2. Oil expl orati on licences, oil pros pecting licences and oil mi ning leases
(1) Subject to this Act, the Minister may grant-
(a) a licence, to be known as an oil exploration licence, to explore for petroleum;
(b) a licence, to be known as an oil prospecting licence, to prospect for petroleum;
and
(c) a lease, to be known as an oil mining lease, to search for, win, work, carry
away and dispose of petroleum.
(2) A licence or lease under this section may be granted only to a company incorpo-
rated in Nigeria under the Companies and Allied Matters Act or any corresponding law.
[Cap. C20.]
(3) The provisions of the First Schedule to this Act shall, in so far as they are applica-
ble, have effect in relation to licences and leases granted under this section.
[First Schedule.]
3. Refineries
(l) No refinery shall be constructed or operated in Nigeria without a licence granted
by the Minister.
(2) Licences granted under this section shall be in the prescribed form and shall be
subject to the prescribed terms and conditions or, where no form is prescribed or no terms
or conditions are prescribed, in such form or subject to such terms and conditions as may
be decided or imposed by the Minister.
(3) There shall be charged in respect of every licence granted under this section such
application fees and such other fees as may be prescribed.
(4) The provisions of this section are additional to the provisions of the Hydrocarbon
Oil Refineries Act.
[Cap. H5.]
4. Control of petroleum products
(1) Subject to this section, no person shall import, store, sell or distribute any petro-
leum products in Nigeria without a licence granted by the Minister.
(2) Subsection (1) of this section shall not apply in respect t o-
(a) the storage, sale or distribution of not more than 500 litres of kerosene, and
such other categories of petroleum products as may be exempted from the ap-
plication of subsection (1) of this section by the Minister by order published in
the Federal Gazette;
(b) storage of petroleum products undertaken otherwise than in connection with
the importation, sale or distribution of petroleum products.
(3) Licences granted by the Minister under this section shall be subject to the pre-
scribed terms and conditions where no form is prescribed or no terms or conditions are
prescribed, in such form and on such terms and conditions as may be decided or imposed
by the Minister.
(4) There shall be charged in respect of every licence granted under this section ap-
plication fees and such other fees as may be prescribed.
(5) The Minister may by order published in the Federal Gazette delegate the power to
grant licences under this section to such persons or authorities in a State as he may deem
fit.
(6) Any person who does, without the appropriate licence, any act for which a licence
is required under this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on convic-
tion to imprisonment for two years or a fine of N2,OOO or both, and, in addition, the

-- 2 of 147 --

petroleum products in respect of which the offence was committed shall be forfeited.
5. Offences in connection with the distribution of petroleum products
(1) If any oil marketing company in pursuance of any agreement or arrangement
between it and any other oil marketing company borrows any petroleum products from
any other oil marketing company and fails to return to that company an equivalent quan-
tity of the petroleum products borrowed within two weeks of the date on which the
petroleum products were borrowed, the first-named oil marketing company shall be
guilty of an offence and on conviction shall be liable to a fine of N100 per metric ton of
the petroleum products concerned.
(2) If any oil marketing company at any time registers only unpumpable stock in re-
spect of petroleum products stored in its depot at Apapa, Lagos, that company shall be
guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine of N5, 000 for each day
during which only unpumpable stock is registered.
(3) In this section, "oil mark eti ng company" means any company in respect of
which a marketer's licence has been granted by the Minister under section 4 of this Act.
6. Price control
(1) The Minister may by order published in the Federal Gazette fix the prices at
which petroleum products or any particular class or classes thereof may be sold in Ni-
geria or in any particular part or parts thereof.
(2) The Minister may by notice in writing require any person appearing to him to
have or to be likely to have access to information which is relevant to the fixing of any
prices of the kind mentioned in subsection (1) of this section to supply that information to
the Minister, and any person so required shall be legally bound to use his best endeavours
to supply the information accordingly.
7. Rig hts of pre -empti on
(1) In the event of a state of national emergency or war the Minister shall have the
right of pre-emption of all petroleum and petroleum products obtained, marketed or other-
wise dealt with under any licence or lease granted under this Act.
[1998 No. 22.]
(2) The provisions of the Second Schedule to this Act shall have effect in relation to
the right mentioned in subsection (1) of this section.
[Second Schedule.]
(3) Any person who, without reasonable excuse (the burden of proof of which shall
lie on him), fails to comply with a requisition made by or on behalf of the Minister under
paragraph 1, 2 or 7 of the Second Schedule to this Act, or fails to conform to or obey a
direction issued by the Minister under paragraph 8 of the Second Schedule to this Act,
shall be guilty of an offence and on conviction shall be liable to a fine not exceeding
N2,000 [Second Schedule.]
(4) Any person who obstructs or interferes with the Minister or his servants or agents
in the exercise of the powers conferred on the Minister by paragraph 8 of the Second
Schedule to this Act shall be guilty of an offence and on conviction shall be liable to a
tine not exceeding N200 or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months, or to
both.
(5) The Minister may, for the purpose of subsection (1) of this section, advise the
President to declare a state of national emergency if the Minister is satisfied that, as a
result of the low level of availability of petroleum and petroleum products-
Ca) there is an actual breakdown of public order and public safety in the Federation
or any part thereof; or
(b) there is a clear and present danger of actual breakdown of public order or pub-
lic safety in the Federation or any part thereof.
[1998 No. 22.]
(6) The President may, on receiving the advice of the Minister under subsection (5)
of this section, declare a state of national emergency under the provisions of the Consti-
tution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 for the purpose of subsection (1) of this
section, if he is satisfied that it is necessary to do so.
[Cap. C23. 1998 No. 22.]

-- 3 of 147 --

8. Po wers and duties of public officers
(1) The Minister-
(a) shall exercise general supervision over all operations carried on under licences
and leases granted under this Act;
(b) shall report annually to the Federal Government on the progress of the oil in-
dustry in Nigeria;
(c) shall have access at all times to the areas covered by oil exploration licences,
oil prospecting licences and oil mining leases, and to all refineries and instal-
lations which are subject to this Act, for the purpose of inspecting the opera-
tions conducted therein and enforcing the provisions of this Act and any regu-
lations made thereunder and the conditions of any licences or leases granted
under this Act or under any corresponding law for the time being in force in
Nigeria;
(d) may arrest without warrant any person whom he finds committing, or whom he
reasonably suspects of having committed, any offence under this Act or any
regulations made thereunder, and shall hand over any person so arrested to a
police officer with as little delay as possible;
(e) may by notice in writing require the holder of a licence or lease granted under
this Act or any contractor working for the holder (or any servant or agent of
the holder or the contractor) to appear before him at a reasonable time and
place to give such information as he may require about the operations being
conducted under the licence or lease, and every person so required to appear
shall be legally bound to comply with the notice and give the information;
(f) may direct in writing that operations under a licence or lease granted under this
Act shall be suspended in any area until arrangements have been made which
in his opinion are necessary to prevent danger to life or property;
(g) may direct in writing the suspension of any operations which in his opinion are
not being conducted in accordance with good oil field practice; and
(h) may direct in writing the suspension of any operations where in his opinion a
contravention of this Act or any regulations made thereunder has been or may
have been or is likely to be committed.
(2) The Director of Geological Survey shall have access at all times to the areas cov-
ered by oil exploration licences, oil prospecting licences and oil mining leases for the
purpose of inspecting geophysical and geological operation therein.
9. Reg ul ati ons
(1) The Minister may make regulations-
(a) prescribing anything requiring to be prescribed for the purposes of this Act;
(b) providing generally for matters relating to licences and leases granted under
this Act and operations carried on thereunder, including-
(i) safe working;
(ii) the conservation of petroleum resources;
(iii) the prevention of pollution of water courses and the atmosphere;
(iv) the making of reports and returns (including the reporting of acci-
dents);
(v) inquiries into accidents;
(vi) the keeping and inspection of records, books, statistics, accounts and
plans;
(vii) the measurement of production; and
(viii) the measurement of crude oil delivered to refineries;
(c) regulating the construction, maintenance and operation of installations used in
pursuance of this Act;
(d) regulating refineries and refining operations, and, where two or more refineries
are in operation, specifying-
(i) the proportion or quantity of crude oil to be supplied to each refinery;
(ii) the share of each refinery in the total market; and

-- 4 of 147 --

(iii) the prices of refinery products;
(e) regulating the importation, handling, storage and distribution of petroleum,
petroleum products and other flammable oils and liquids, and in particular
(without prejudice to the generality of the t'oregoing)-
(i) prohibiting the importation or exportation of petroleum or petroleum
products except at specified ports or places;
(ii) prescribing the notice to be given (and the person by whom the same
shall be given) on the arrival at a port of a ship carrying petroleum or
petroleum products as cargo;
(iii) defining dangerous petroleum and dangerous petroleum products, pre-
scribing anchorages for ships carrying dangerous petroleum or danger-
ous petroleum products as cargo and requiring those ships to proceed to
and remain at those anchorages;
(iv) regulating the loading, unloading, transport within a port, landing,
trans-shipment and shipment of petroleum and petroleum products;
(v) providing for the licensing of lighters and other craft to carry petroleum
and petroleum products within a port;
(vi) prescribing conditions and restrictions to be imposed upon vessels ar-
riving at a port after having carried petroleum, petroleum products,
dangerous petroleum or dangerous petroleum products;
(vii) providing for the examination and testing of petroleum and petroleum
products, and prescribing the tests to be applied to ascertain its flash-
point and the method of applying those tests; and
(viii) subject to subsection (2) of this section, regulating the transport of pe-
troleum and petroleum products, prescribing the quantity of petroleum
and petroleum products which may be carried in any vessel, cart, truck,
railway wagon or other vehicle, the manner in which they shall be
stored when being so carried, the receptacles in which they shall be
contained when being so carried and the quantities to be contained in
those receptacles, and providing for the search and inspection of any
such vessel, cart, truck, railway wagon or other vehicle;
(f) conferring or imposing on public officers for the purposes of this Act powers
and duties additional to those conferred or imposed by section 8 of this Act;
(g) where paragraph (a) of this subsection does not apply; prescribing-
(i) forms to be used for the purposes of this Act; and
(ii) fees to be charged in connection with the operation of this Act (in-
cluding, without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, fees for
the giving of any permission by the Minister and for the supplying of
any document or other material, the carrying out of any examination
and the doing of any other thing by him); and
(h) providing for such other matters as in his opinion may be necessary or desir-
able in order to give proper effect to this Act.
(2) Regulations made under subsection (1) (e) (viii) of this section shall apply only
where petroleum or petroleum products are being transported-
(a) on the waters mentioned in item 36 (a) and (b) of Part 1 of the Second
Schedule to the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999; or
[Second Schedule. Cap. C23.]
(b) by railway or transport ancillary thereto; or
(c) on trunk roads within the meaning of item 62 of that Part of that Schedule.
10. Discharge of obligation to make payments
An obligation to pay any fees, rent, royalty, premium or other sum imposed by or un-
der this Act shall be discharged if, and only if, the payment is made within the time pro-
vided by or under this Act (or, where no time is so provided, within a reasonable time) to
the Minister or his duly authorised representative.

-- 5 of 147 --

11. Settlement of'disputes by arbitration
(1) Where by any provision of this Act or any regulations made thereunder a question
or dispute is to be settled by arbitration, the question or dispute shall be settled in accor-
dance with the law relating to arbitration in the appropriate State and the provision shall
be treated as a submission to arbitration for the purposes of that law.
(2) In this section "the appropriate State" means the State agreed by all parties to a
question or dispute to be appropriate in the circumstances or, if there is no such agree-
ment, the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja.
12. Deleg ati on of po wers
(1) The Minister may by writing under his hand delegate to another person any power
conferred on him by or under this Act except the power to make orders and regulations.
(2) The Minister or the Director of Geological Survey may by writing under his hand
delegate any power conferred on him by or under this Act to another public officer.
13. Offences
(1) Any person who interferes with or obstructs the holder of a licence or lease
granted under section 2 of this Act (or his servants or agents) in the exercise of any rights,
power or liberty conferred by the licence or lease shall be guilty of an offence and on
conviction shall be liable to a tine not exceeding N200 or to imprisonment for a period
not exceeding six months, or to both.
(2) Any person who-
(a) constructs or operates a refinery in Nigeria without a licence granted under
section 3 of this Act; or
(b) in any land to which section 1 of this Act applies-
(i) explores for petroleum without an oil exploration licence; or
(ii) prospects for petroleum without an oil prospecting licence; or
(iii) wins or works petroleum otherwise than in pursuance of a licence or
lease granted under this Act; or
(iv) does, without the appropriate licence, any act for which a licence is
required under any regulations made under this Act,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a tine not exceeding
N 2,000.
(3) Any person who contravenes any provision of an order made under section 6 of
this Act shall be guilty of an offence and on conviction shall be liable to a tine not ex-
ceeding N 2,000.
(4) Where a person is convicted of an offence under subsection (2) or (3) of this sec-
tion in respect of any petroleum or petroleum products, then, in addition to any penalty
imposed under the subsection in question, the convicting court may-
(a) order the petroleum or petroleum products to be forfeited; or
(b) order that person to pay to the Minister the value of the petroleum or petro-
leum products.
14. Repeals, amendments, transiti onal and savi ngs provisions
(1) The enactments specified in the Third Schedule to this Act are hereby repealed to
the extent therein specified. [Third Schedule.]
(2) The reference to petroleum licence in section 140 (1) and (2) of the Minerals and
Mining Act shall be construed as including a reference to this Act.
[Cap. MI2.]

-- 6 of 147 --

(3) The transitional and savings provisions in the Fourth Schedule to this Act shall
have effect notwithstanding any other provision of this Act.
[Fourth Schedule.]
15. Interpr etati on
(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-
"barrel " means a barrel of 42 United States gallons;
"conti nental shel f' means the sea bed and subsoil of those submarine areas adjacent
to the coast of Nigeria the surface of which lies at a depth no greater than 200 metres (or,
where its natural resources are capable of exploitation, at any depth) below the surface of
the sea, excluding so much of those areas as lies below the territorial waters of Nigeria;
"crude oil " means oil in its natural state before it has been refined or treated (ex-
cluding water and other foreign substances);
"ex pl ore" in relation to petroleum, means to make a preliminary search by surface
geological and geophysical methods, including aerial surveys but excluding drilling be-
low 91.44 metres;
" Mi nister" means the Minister of Petroleum Resources;
"natural g as" means gas obtained from boreholes and wells and consisting primarily
of hydrocarbons;
"petroleum" means mineral oil (or any related hydrocarbon) or natural gas as it
exists in its natural state in strata, and does not include coal or bituminous shales or other
stratified deposits from which oil can be extracted by destructive distillation;
"petroleum pro ducts " includes motor spirit, gas oil, diesel oil, automotive gas oil,
fuel oil, aviation fuel, kerosene, liquefied petroleum gases and any lubrication oil or
grease or other lubricant;
"pros pect" in relation to petroleum, means search for by all geological and geophysi-
cal methods, including drilling and seismic operations;
"refi nery" means petroleum refinery;
"rent" includes any annual or other periodic charge made in respect of a licence
granted under section 2 of this Act;
"S tate" except in section 1 of this Act, means a State of the Federation.
(2) References in this Act to the Director of Geological Survey are references to the
persons for the time being holding, acting in or performing the functions of the offices so
designated in the public service of the Federation as defined in the Constitution of the
Federal Republic Nigeria 1999.
[Cap. C23.]
16. S hort ti tle and commencement
(1) This Act may be cited as the Petroleum Act.
(2) This Act, except section 6 and the Second Schedule thereof, shall come into force
on 27 November 1969.