1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Prevention of Crimes Act.
2. Interpretation
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-
"crime" means any felony as defined in the Criminal Code;
"criminal" means a person convicted of a crime;
"superior police officer" includes an administrative officer in charge of police and
such other person as may be authorised in writing by a superior police officer within the
meaning of the Police Act to perform the duties of a superior police officer under this
Act.
3. Persons twice convicted may be subjected to police supervision
(1) Where any person is convicted of a crime, and a previous conviction of a crime is
proved against him, the court before which he is convicted may, in addition to any other
punishment which it may award, direct that he is to be subjected to the supervision of the
police for a period not exceeding five years commencing immediately after the expiration
of the sentence passed on him for the last of such crimes.
(2) Every person subjected to the supervision of the police who is at large in Nigeria,
shall notify the place of his residence to the nearest superior police officer and, whenever
he is about to change his residence, shall notify such intention to the said superior police
officer, stating the place to which he is going, and also, if required, and so far as is practi-
cable, his address at that place, and so soon as he arrives at his new place of residence he
shall forthwith notify his arrival to the superior police officer stationed nearest to such
last-mentioned place.
(3) Every such person shall once in each month report himself at such time and in
such manner as may be prescribed by the nearest superior police officer, either to such
officer himself or to such other person as that officer may direct.
(4) If any person fails to comply with any of the requirements of this section, he shall
be guilty of an offence against this Act, unless he proves that he did his best to act in con-
formity with the law and was prevented by circumstances beyond his control, and shall
be liable on conviction to imprisonment for one year.
4. President may remit requirements of section 3
The President may, by order under his hand, remit any of the requirements of sec-
tion 3 of this Act either generally or in the case of any person subject to supervision of
the police.
5. Penalty for harbouring thieves, etc.

-- 1 of 23 --

(1) Every person who occupies or keeps a lodging house or any premises licensed
under the Liquor Act, or any place of public entertainment or public resort, and know-
ingly lodges or knowingly harbours thieves or reputed thieves, or knowingly permits or
knowingly suffers them to meet or assemble therein, or knowingly allows the deposit of
goods therein having reasonable cause for believing them to be stolen, shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of twenty naira or to imprisonment
for four months.
(2) The court before which a person is convicted under subsection (1) of this section
may, in addition to or in lieu of such punishment, require him to enter into his own re-
cognisance with or without sureties for keeping the peace and being of good behaviour
during twelve months, and may order him to be imprisoned until such recognisance, with
sureties, if so directed, is entered into: but so that the imprisonment for not entering into
recognisance shall not extend for a term longer than two months.
(3) Any licence for the sale of intoxicating liquor, or for keeping any place of public
entertainment or public resort, which has been granted to the occupier or keeper of any
such house or place referred to in subsection (1) of this section, may, in the discretion of
the court, be forfeited on his first conviction of an offence under this section, and on his
second conviction for such an offence his licence shall be forfeited, and he shall be dis-
qualified for a period of two years from receiving any such licence.

-- 2 of 23 --

6. Power to make regulations
The President may make regulations for all or any of the purposes following-
(a) providing for the registration and photographing of criminals and persons de-
tained by the police or in custody awaiting trial, and the manner, form and
places in which registers of criminals and such other persons shall be kept;
(b) prescribing the duties of officers of police or officers in charge of prisons in
connection with the registration and photographing of criminals and persons
detained or in custody awaiting trial;
(c) providing for the taking by any authorised person of the fingerprints of crimi-
nals and persons charged with or being suspected of having committed any
felony, misdemeanour, or other offence punishable by imprisonment for one
month or more and for the taking of the fingerprints, for comparison, of any
person reasonably suspected of having made a finger impression on any docu-
ment or object likely to become an exhibit in a criminal case;
(d) generally for the purpose of giving effect to the objects and purposes of this
Act.