1. Private guard companies to be licensed
(1) As from the commencement of this Act, no organisation shall perfo rm the service
of watching, guarding, patrolling or carrying of money for the purpose of providing pro -
tection against crime unless the organisation concerned--
(a) is registered as a company under or pursuant to the Companies and Allied
Matters Act; and
(b)
[Cap. C20.]
has applied for and has been granted a licence by the Minister in accordance
with the provisions of this Act.

-- 2 of 13 --

(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, where on the coming into opera-
tion of this Act any company is carrying on private guard business in Nigeria, such com-
pany may apply within six months thereafter to be licensed but shall cease to carry on
private guard business of any description in Nigeria after the expiration of twelve months
from the coming into operation of this Act unless, prior to the expiration of the said pe-
riod such company, being a registered company, is licensed to continue the particular
class or classes of private guard business in respect of which application had been made
by the company concerned.
2. Applicati on for licence
(1) An application for a licence shall be made in writing through the licensing
authority to the Minister in the manner and giving such particulars as specified in Form A
in the Schedule to this Act.
[Schedule. Form A.]
(2) The Minister may, before considering any such application, require from the ap-
plicant-
(a) further evidence, as the Minister may specify, concerning the good character,
competence and integrity of any director or other person responsible for or in
charge of the operation of the company concerned;
(b) where Alsatian or other guard dogs are to be employed in the services of the
company, sufficient evidence that all existing regulations relating to animal
health and certification have been complied with; and
(c) such further information as the Minister may specify.
(3) An application for a licence shall be accompanied by such fee as the Minister
may prescribe.
(4) An application for a licence shall be accompanied by a statement setting out the
conditions of service (including salaries) of the employees or prospective employees of
the company making the application.
3. Granting of licence to operate
The Minister may grant a licence as specified in Form B in the Schedule to this Act to
the applicant if he is satisfied that the grant is justified having regard to national security
and the public interest.
[Schedule. Form B.]
4. Nature and effect of licence to operate
(1) A licence granted by the Minister under the provis ions of section 3 shall be valid
and operative for two years from the date of issue.
(2) Any such licence shall specify the number of offices, branches or other places of
business which the company is permitted to maintain.
(3) A licence may be suspended or revoked by the Minister at any time if he is satis-
fied that the company holding the licence is unsuitable to continue to hold such licence.
(4) A licence may be suspended or revoked by the Minister at any time where in his
opinion the ownership or control of, or any controlling interest in the company to which
the licence relates has passed to any other company or organisation which is generally
unsuitable to be considered for the grant of such licence.
5. Registered address
(l) Every company licensed under this Act shall on the day it is registered notify the
licensing authority in writing of the addresses of all its branches in Nigeria, so however
that a postal box address or a private mail bag address shall not by itself satisfy the obli-
gation imposed on the company under this subsection.
(2) Notice of any change in the registered address of the company or of the address of
any branch thereof shall be given by the company within fourteen days thereof to the
licensing authority who shall cause same to be recorded.
(3) If a company carries on business without complying with the requirements of this
section, it and every officer thereof shall be liable to a fine of N500.
6. Li cence to be dis pl ayed

-- 3 of 13 --

Immediately upon the receipt of a licence under section 3 of this Act, the company
shall cause it to be displayed in a conspicuous place in its office, and for this purpose
duplicate licences may be issued where the company carries on business in more than one
place.
7. Empl oyees to be approved
Subject to section 36 (3), no company licensed to operate under this Act shall employ
any person unless an approval has been granted as specified in Form C in the Schedule to
this Act for the person to be employed in such company.
[Schedule. Form C .l
8. Application for empl oyee's approval
(1) Application for an approval to which section 7 relates shall be made through the
licensing authority to the Minister in writing accompanied by such fee as may be pre-
scribed and by the particulars specified in Form D in the Schedule to this Act.
[Schedule. Form D.l
(2) The Minister may before considering any application, require from the appli-
cant-
(a) further evidence, as the Minister may specify, concerning the good character,
competence and integrity of the applicant; and
(b) such further information as the Minister may specify.
9. Nature and effect of empl oyee's appro val
(1) An approval to which section 7 relates shall authorise the applicant to be em-
ployed by the company specified in such approval.
(2) An approval granted under section 7 shall specify the kind of work which the ap-
plicant is authorised to perform.
(3) An approval granted under section 7 may be withdrawn by the Minister at any
time if he is satisfied that the person concerned is unsuitable to continue to be so em-
ployed.
(4) Upon the withdrawal of an approval granted under section 7, every identification
card issued to that employee shall cease to be valid and shall forthwith be surrendered to
the Minister.
10. Issue of i dentity card
(l) Upon the grant of an approval under section 7, the Minister shall authorise the
company to issue or cause to be issued an identity card to the employee containing the
photograph and personal description and details of the employee in such form as the
Minister may determine.
(2) The employee shall carry the identity card at all times when on duty on behalf of
the company by which he is employed.
(3) The employee shall produce the identity card for inspection at any time upon re-
quest being made there for by any police officer or to any person with whom he has deal-
ings when carrying out his duties as aforesaid.
11. Renewal of licence and revocati on
(1) The holder of a licence to which section 3 relates may, not more than three
months before the expiry thereof, apply in accordance with the provisions of this Act for
a new licence to take effect from the expiry of the current licence.
(2) Where the holder of a licence aforesaid fails to renew such licence within the
specified period, then the licence shall stand revoked upon its expiry and such holder
shall thereupon cease to operate as a private guard company.
12. Repl acement of l ost licences
(1) Where a licence issued under this Act is lost or defaced or is otherwise not in a fit
state to be used as a licence, the licensee may apply to the licensing authority for a dupli-
cate licence.
(2) Every application by the licensee for a duplicate licence shall be accompanied by
the prescribed fee and such particulars as the Minister may prescribe.
(3) In this section, "licence" means a licence issued pursuant to section 3 of this Act
and "licensee" shall be construed accordingly.
13. Restricti on on g rant of licence or approval
(1) The licensing authority shall not grant any licence or approval under the provi-

-- 4 of 13 --

sions of this Act if any director of the company or the person applying for approval-
(a) has been found guilty of a criminal offence under the Penal Code, the Criminal
Code, the Firearms Act, the Explosives Act or the Robbery and Firearms (Spe-
cial Provisions) Act, by a court or tribunal of competent jurisdiction in Nigeria
or of an offence of a similar nature elsewhere;
[Cap. C38. Cap. F28. Cap. E18. Cap. R11.]
(b) has been sentenced to any period of imprisonment for an offence involving
fraud, theft or a breach of trust, whether in Nigeria or elsewhere;
(c) has been dismissed, discharged or otherwise removed on disciplinary grounds
from the Nigeria Police Force, the Armed Forces of the Federation, the Nige-
rian Prisons Service, the Special Constabulary, the Fire Services or Customs
Preventive Service or any such similar law enforcement agency or service
whether in Nigeria or elsewhere;
(d) is a person in respect of whom the Minister is satis fied that it is contrary to
public interest or the interest of national security that he should be a director or
be approved for employment under the provisions of this Act;
(e) is not a citizen of Nigeria.
(2) Where any person approved under the provisions of this Act is convicted of any
offence referred to in subsection (1) of this section or is sentenced to a period of impri-
sonment, it shall be the duty of the registrar of the court concerned to notify the licensing
authority thereof and the licensing authority shall withdraw the approval granted to the
person.
PA RT II
Control and administration
14. Records and annual returns
(1) Every company shall-
(a) keep complete records, in a form prescribed by the Minister, of all persons
employed from time to time in carrying on of the business of the company and
of such other work undertaken; and
(b) file with the licensing authority, upon application for a new licence to replace a
licence that is expiring or, in any event not later than the last day during the
month of January in each year, a return showing-
(i) the address of each office or other place of business in which it carried
on its business during the immediately preceding calendar year;
(ii) the name and address of each employee of the company during the
immediately preceding calendar year; and
(iii) such other information as may from time to time be prescribed by the
Minister.
(2) Every company shall, whenever requested to do so by the licensing authority
make all records required to be kept under this Act available to the licensing authority for
inspection.
15. Company not entitled to fees, etc., unless licensed
No company shall be entitled to sue for or recover or retain any commission, fee, gain
or reward for any service performed by the company unless at the time of performing that
service the company was the holder of the relevant licence under this Act.
16. Uniforms to be approved
(1) No employee of any company holding a licence to which section 1 relates, shall
wear, carry or bear any uniform, cap, badge, accoutrement or other identification mark
unless such uniform, cap, badge, accoutrement or other identification mark has first been
approved for use by the Minister in writing.
(2) The Minister shall not approve any article under subsection (1) of this section if
in his opinion that article has any resemblance to a similar article used by the Nigeria
Police Force, the Nigerian Prisons Service, the Armed Forces of the Federation, Cus -
toms Preventive Service or any other uniformed service in Nigeria.

-- 5 of 13 --

17. Prohibition of firearms, etc.
No person approved under the provisions of this Act shall bear or possess any firearm
or ammunition in the course of his duties.
18. Training syllabus to be approved
No company licensed under the provisions of this Act shall train or order persons to
be trained except the training syllabus and instruction notes have first been approved for
use by the Minister.
19. Licensing authority for private guard companies
(1) There shall, for the purposes of this Act, be a licensing authority for private guard
companies, who shall be an officer in the Ministry for which the Minister has responsi-
bility or such other public officer as may be designated in that behalf by the Minister.
(2) The powers conferred on the Minister under this Act (including the power to
grant a licence to a private guard company under section 3 of this Act) may, without
prejudice to the exercise of any such power by the Minister, be exercisable by the licens-
ing authority if so authorised either generally or specially in that behalf by the Minister
and the expression "licensing authority" wherever used in this Act shall be construed
accordingly.
PA RT III
Prohibited activities, offences, penalties, etc.
20. Licensees not to act as debt collectors
No company licensed under this Act shall act as a collector of debts or advertise itself
or hold itself out as undertaking to collect debts for any other person, either with or with -
out remuneration.
21. Acting as police officer prohibited
No company licensed under this Act shall at any time, whether by agreement with any
police authority or otherwise, act as a member of the Nigeria Police Force or perform the
duties of a constable or other police officer or any other law enforcement agents.
22. Expression "pri vate detective" prohi bited
No person engaged in any business or employment in a private guard company shall
use the expression "private detective" in connection with such bus iness or employment or
hold himself out in any manner as a private detective.
23. Information confidential
No company or employee thereof who is or has been licensed or approved under this
Act shall divulge to anyone, except as is legally authorised or required, any information
acquired in the course of his duties under this Act.
24. Offences
(l) Any person who-
(a) for the purpose of securing an approval under the provisions of this Act makes
any statement or provides any information which he knows to be false or does
not have reason to believe the same to be true; or
(b) acts as the employee of any company when he or that company has not been
licensed or approved under the provisions of this Act; or
(c) fails to carry while on duty, or to produce in accordance with section 10 of this
Act, any identity card issued to him under that section; or
(d) wears, carries or bears any article which he is not authorised to wear, carry or
bear under section 16 of this Act; or
(e) bears or possesses any firearm or ammunition contrary to the provisions of
section 17 of this Act,
shall be guilty of an offence.
(2) Any person approved or any company licensed under the provisions of this Act
who--
(a) supplies or offers to supply to any other person any firearm, ammunition, tear
gas or similar manufactured weapon; or
(b) collects or offers or attempts to collect, or directly or indirectly engages in the
business of collecting debts or claims of any kind, shall be guilty of an offence.

-- 6 of 13 --

25. Advertisement as to name and address
Any company which publishes or causes to be published (whether in a newspaper or
by radio or television or otherwise) any advertisement relating to or in connection with its
business (other than an advertisement relating solely to the recruiting of staff) without
specifying therein the name as appearing in the licence and the registered address of such
company shall be guilty of an offence.
26. Pri vate g uard company not to sell or dis pose of its licence
Any company which or any approved employee who sells, disposes of or delivers, lets
out, hires or rents its licence, approval or identity card shall be guilty of an offence.
27. Unl awful entry
Any employee who, when exercising or carrying on the functions of his employment,
enters without lawful authority upon any premises shall be guilty of an offence.
28. Misrepresentati ons
Any company which by any false, misleading or deceptive statement, representation
or promise or by any wilful concealment of a material fact, induces or attempts to induce
any person to enter into an arrangement or contract in connection with its business as
such shall be guilty of an offence.
29. Company not to direct any person to carry out any functi on for which the com -
pany is not licensed
Any company which or any employee who directs, authorises or permits any person
to exercise any of the functions of a company or approved employee when the person is
not an approved person under this Act shall be guilty of an offence.
30. Company not to empl oy persons in respect of whom approval is refused or can-
celled
Any company which knowingly employs in any capacity whatsoever in its business a
person who has been refused approval under this Act or whose approval has been can -
celled unless the approval has subsequently been restored shall be guilty of an offence.
31. Approval not to confer s peci al po wers
(1) No person shall by virtue of being approved have any power or authority which
he would not have if this Act had not been made.
(2) Any person who in any way-
(a) suggests or implies that by virtue of his approval, he may exercise any power
or authority which in fact he could not exercise if this Act had not been made;
or
(b) uses or attempts to use his approval and employment to exercise or as entitling
him to exercise any such power or authority,
shall be guilty of an offence.
32. Penalty for offences
(1) Where a person commits an offence under this Act he shall, subject to subsec-
tion (2) of this section, be liable on conviction there for-
(a) in the case of an individual, to a fine of N400 or imprisonment for twelve
months or to both such fine and imprisonment; and
(b) in the case of a body (whether corporate or unincorporate), to a fine of not less
than N5,000.
(2) Where any person commits an offence under this Act relating to firearms, he shall
be punished as prescribed under the Firearms Act or any other relevant enactment.
[Cap. F28.]
33. Offences by bodies corporate and unincorporate
Where an offence under this Act is committed by a body corporate or firm or other
association of individuals-
(a) every director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body corpo-
rate;

-- 7 of 13 --

(b) every partner or officer of the firm;
(c) every person concerned in the management of the affairs of the association; or
(d) every person purporting to act in any such capacity as aforesaid,
shall severally be guilty of that offence and liable to be prosecuted and punished for the
offence in like manner as if he had himself committed the offence in an individual capac-
ity unless he proves that the act or omission constituting the offence took place without
his knowledge, consent or connivance.
34. General po wer to revoke licences
The Minister may revoke the licence of any company or any approval given in respect
of an employee of a company under the provisions of this Act where such company or
person contravenes any of the provisions of this Act.
PARTIV
Supplementary
35. Reg ul ati ons
The Minister may make regulations generally for the purpose of giving effect to the
provisions of this Act.
36. Interpretati on, exempti on, etc.
(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires --
"approved" means a person approved by the Minister under section 7 for the purpose
of employment by a private guard company;
"company" or "pri vate g uard company" means any company incorporated in Nige-
ria and licensed under the provisions of this Act for the purpose of providing such ser-
vices as are permitted under section 1 of this Act;
"empl oyee" means a person employed by a private guard company under the provi-
sions of section 7 of this Act;
"firearms" has the meaning assigned to it by the Firearms Act;
[Cap. F28.]
"i dentity card" means any identity card issued pursuant to section 10 of this Act;
"licence" means any licence issued under section 3 of this Act and "licensee" shall
be construed accordingly;
"licensi ng authori ty" means the Minister or as the case may require, an officer ap-
pointed under section 19 (1);
"Mi nister" means the Minister of Internal affairs.
(2) Any reference in this Act to any section, Part or Schedule not otherwise identified
is a reference to that section, Part or Schedule of this Act.
(3) This Act shall not be construed as requiring any of the following persons to hold a
licence under or to observe any of the conditions of this Act, that is to say-
(a) any legal practitioner while acting in the ordinary course of his profession or
any of his employees while acting in the ordinary course of his employer's
profession;
(b) any inspector, guard, watchman, or other person employed to do inspecting,
guarding, watching or inquiry work for one employer only (such employer not

-- 8 of 13 --

-- 9 of 13 --

.

-- 10 of 13 --

-- 11 of 13 --

-- 12 of 13 --

-- 13 of 13 --