1. Provisions for facilities to practise certain professions in Nigeria by non-Nigerians

(1) If the President is satisfied that it is desirable in the public interest so to do he
may, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any enactment, by order published in
the Federal Gazette permit the practice in Nigeria of any of the professions specified in
the Schedule to this Act by persons other than citizens of Nigeria.

[Schedule.)

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing subsection (1) of this section,
the President may by the said order (after such consultation) and with a view to facilitat-
ing the practice of such profession in Nigeria-

(a)        direct that any enactment or the exercise of any power thereunder, which-

(i)   prohibits or restricts the practice of the profession; or

(ii)    enables any person or authority to regulate the membership of the pro-
fession, in a manner that may permit or is likely to permit such prohi-
bition or restriction, shall no longer have effect;

(b)        exempt any person or the profession from the application of any enactment
generally or waive the application of the enactment therefor;

(c)        suspend for such period as he may in his discretion specify the operation that
any enactment has apart from this Act in respect of the profession; and

(d)       make such other provisions as may be necessary for the purposes of subsection
(1) of this section.

(3) Any order to be made pursuant to the foregoing provisions may be made subject
to any conditions which the President may in his discretion impose.

(4) Any enactment to which any of the foregoing provisions relate shall, unless it is
hereafter otherwise expressly provided, be construed subject to this Act.

2. Interpretation

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"enactment" includes law or any subsidiary instrument made thereunder; and

"person" means any individual or class of individuals duly qualified to practise any
of the professions set out under the Schedule to this Act.

[Schedule.]

3.
Short title

This Act may be cited as the Professional Bodies (Special Provisions) Act.