1. Establishment of the Public Enterprises Regulatory Commission
(1) There is hereby established a body to be known as the Public Enterprises Regulatory
Commission (in this Act referred to as "the Commission").
(2) The Commission-
(a) shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal; and
(b) may sue and be sued in its corporate name.
2. Membership of the Commission
(1) There is hereby established for the Commission a governing Board which shall con-
sist of--
(a) a chairman who shall also be the chief executive of the Commission;
(b) eight other members, at least one of whom shall be a woman; and
(c) the secretary to the Commission.
(2) The chairman and members of the Board shall-
(a) be appointed by the President; and
(b) be persons with proven integrity and with relevant cognitive experience.
(3) The supplementary provisions set out in the Schedule to this Act shall have effect
with respect to the proceedings of the Board and the other matters contained therein.
[Schedule.]
3. Tenure of office, etc.
(1) The chairman shall hold office-
(a) for a period of five years and may be re-appointed for one further period of five
years; and
(b) on such other terms and conditions as may be specified in his letter of appoint-
ment.
(2) The other members of the Board shall hold office-
(a) for a period of four years and may be re-appointed for one further period of four
years; and
(b) on such other terms and conditions as may be specified in their letters of appoint-

-- 4 of 53 --

ment.
4. Removal from office
(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 3 of this Act, a member may at any time
be removed from office by the President for inability to discharge the functions of his office
(whether arising from infirmity of mind or body or any other cause) or for misconduct, but
shall not be removed from office except in accordance with the provisions of this subsection.
(2) A member of the Board may resign his appointment by a notice in writing under his
hand, addressed to the President and that member shall, on the date of the receipt of the
notice by the President, cease to be a member of the Board.
5. Emoluments, etc.
There shall be paid to every member of the Board such emoluments, allowances and
benefits as the President may, from time to time, approve.
6. Disclosure of interest
(1) A member of the Board who directly or indirectly has an interest in any public enter-
prise, the affairs of which are being deliberated upon by the Board, or is interested in any
contract made or proposed to be made by the Commission shall, as soon as possible after the
relevant facts have come to his knowledge, disclose the nature of his interest at a meeting of
the Board.
(2) A disclosure under subsection (1) of this section shall be recorded in the minutes of
meetings of the Board and the member shall-
(a) not take part after such disclosure in any deliberation or decision of the Board with
regard to the subject matter in respect of which his interest is thus disclosed; and
(b) be excluded for the purpose of constituting a quorum of any meeting of the Board
for any such deliberation or decision.
PART II
Functions and powers
7. Functions of the Commission
The Commission shall-
(a) analyse the approved annual budget of a public enterprise and advise the appropri-
ate authority as to its adequacy or suitability in the light of the objects and func-
tions of the public enterprise;
(b) monitor the implementation of all the measures enumerated in approved annual
budgets of public enterprises;
(c) monitor and identify factors inhibiting the realisation of set revenue targets of any
public enterprise;
(d) promote efficiency, monetary stability and a sound financial system in the man-
agement of public enterprises;
(e) assist appropriate authorities in the formulation and implementation of policy so
as to ensure sound and efficient management of public enterprises;
(f) arrange and conduct investigation or inspection into the affairs of a public enter-
prise where the interest of the public so demand;
(g) assess the report on any project being carried out by a public enterprise and
confirm that funds released for such projects are judiciously utilised;
(h) give a situation report of all its activities on a quarterly basis to the President;
(i) ensure that a person who defaults in any matter referred to in this section or any
other matter related to it is brought before the court under this Act;
(j) receive the annual reports and accounts of all public enterprises and make recom-
mendations on them to the President;
(k) advise the President on the appointment of directors of public enterprises; and
(l) carry out such other activities connected with its other functions as may be di-
rected, from time to time, by the President.
8. Powers of the Commission

-- 5 of 53 --

(1) The Commission shall have power to-
(a) invite any director or officer of a public enterprise to appear before it;
(b) call for memoranda from any public enterprise or any director or officer of the
public enterprise;
(c) ask for and receive from a public enterprise, reports, audited accounts or such
other information relating to the public enterprise as may be required for the pur-
poses of the Commission and in whatever manner it deems fit;
(d) monitor any matter to the extent that it affects the functions of the Commission;
(e) enter and inspect premises, projects and such other places as may be necessary for
the purposes of carrying out its functions under this Act; and
(f) do such other things as are necessary and expedient for the full discharge of any
of its functions under this Act.
(2) Nothing in this section shall affect the powers, duties or jurisdiction conferred on any
body established under any other Act or law for the time being in force for the smooth and
effective performance of that body.
9. Directives by the President
The President may give to the Commission such directives as appear to him to be just and
proper for the effective discharge of the functions of the Commission under this Act and it
shall be the duty of the Commission to comply with those directives.
10. Committees of the Commission
(1) The Commission may appoint one or more committees to carry out on behalf of the
Commission any of its functions under this Act.
(2) A committee appointed by the Commission under this section shall consist of such
number of persons as may be determined by the Commission.
PART III
Staff
11. Secretary to the Commission
(1) There shall be, for the Commission, a secretary-
(a) who shall be appointed by the President; and
(b) whose status shall not be below that or a Permanent Secretary.
(2) The secretary shall, subject to the general control of the Board, be-
(a) responsible for keeping proper records of the proceedings of the Commission; and
(b) the head of the secretariat and responsible for-
(i) day-to-day administration; and
(ii) the direction and control of all other employees,
of the Commission.
12. Other staff of the Commission, etc.
(1) The Board shall have power to appoint for the Commission such other employees as
it may deem necessary for the efficient performance of its functions under or pursuant to this
Act and shall have power to pay persons so employed such remuneration (including allow-
ances) as the Commission may determine.
(2) The terms and conditions of service of employees of the Commission shall be as may
be determined by the Commission.
(3) For the purposes of the application of the Pensions Act, any power exercisable under
the Act by the Minister or authority of the Federal Government (not being the power to make
regulations under section 23 thereof) is hereby vested in the Board and not in any other
person or authority.
[Cap. P4.]
(4) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, the Pensions Act shall in its application by
virtue of subsection (3) of this section to any office, have effect as if the office were in the

-- 6 of 53 --

civil service of the Federation within the meaning of the Constitution of the Federal Republic
of Nigeria, 1999.
[Cap. C23.]
13. Service in the Commission to be pensionable
( 1) Service in the Commission shall be approved service for the purpose of the Pensions
Act, and accordingly, an officer and other persons employed in the Commission shall in
respect of their service in the Commission be entitled to pensions, gratuities and other
retirement benefits enjoyed by persons holding equivalent grades in the public service of the
Federation.
[Cap. P4.]
(2) Nothing in this section shall prevent the appointment of a person to any office on
terms which preclude the grant of a pension and gratuity in respect of that office.
PART IV
Financial provisions
14. Fund of the Commission
(1) There shall be established and maintained by the Commission a fund into which shall
be paid and credited-
(a) the annual subvention received from the Federal Government;
(b) such money as may, from time to time, be lent, deposited with or granted to the
Commission by the Federal Government;
(c) all fees and charges for services rendered by the Commission; and
(d) all other sums which may, from time to time, accrue to the Commission.
(2) The Commission may, from time to time, as the Board may direct, apply the funds
at its disposal-
(a) to the cost of the administration of the Commission and for the purposes of any
activity being undertaken by the Commission;
(b) to the payment of remunerations, allowances, benefits and expenses of members
of the Board or of any committee set up by the Board;
(c) to the payment of the salaries, allowances and benefits of officers and servants of
the Commission;
(d) for the maintenance of any property vested in the Commission or under its adrnini-
stration; and
(e) for and in connection with all or any of the functions of the Commission under this
Act or any other enactment.
15. Power to accept gifts
(1) The Commission may accept gifts of land, money or other property on such terms and
conditions, if any, as may be specified by the person or organisation making the gift.
(2) The Commission shall not accept any gift if the term or condition attached by the
person or organisation making the gift is inconsistent with the functions of the Commission
under this Act.
16. Annual estimates, account and audit
(1) The Board shall cause to be prepared not later than 30 September in each year an
estimate of the expenditure and income of the Commission during the next succeeding year
and when prepared, they shall be submitted 10 the President.
(2) The Board shall cause 10 be kept proper accounts of the Commission and proper rcc-
ords in relation thereto and when certified by the Board, the accounts shall be audited by
auditors appointed by the Board from the list and in accordance with the guidelines supplied
by the Auditor-General for the Federation.

-- 7 of 53 --

17. Quarterly report
The Board shall, notwithstanding the provisions of sections 16 and 18 of this ACI and at
the end of every three months, submit to the President a report on the activities and admini-
stration of the Commission.
18. Annual report
The Board shall not later than three months before the end of each year, submit to the
President a report on the activities and the administration of the Commission during the
immediately preceding year and shall include in such report audited accounts of the Commis-
sion and the auditor's report thereon.

-- 8 of 53 --

PART V
Accounung records, financial statements and audit of financial statements
Accounting records
19. Public enterprises to keep accounting records
(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any law or enactment, every
public enterprise shall cause accounting records to be kept in accordance with the provisions
of this Part of this Act.
(2) The accounting records shall be sufficient to show and explain the transactions of the
public enterprise and shall be such as to-
(a) disclose with reasonable accuracy, the financial position of the public enterprise;
and
(b) enable the directors of the public enterprise to ensure that any financial statement
prepared under this Part of this Act complies with the requirements of this Act as
to the form and content of the financial statement of the public enterprise.
(3) The accounting records shall be in accordance with standards set by the Nigerian Ac-
counting Standard Board and in addition shall contain-
(a) entries from day to day of all sums of money received and expended by the public
enterprise and the matters in respect of which the money was received and ex-
pended;and
(b) a record of the assets and liabilities of the public enterprise.
(4) Where the activities of the public enterprise involves dealing in goods, the accounting
records shall contain-
(a) statements of stocks held by the public enterprise at the end of each year;
(b) all statements of stocktaking from which any statement of stock as is mentioned
in paragraph (c) of this subsection has been or is to be prepared; and
(c) except in the case of goods sold by way of ordinary retail trade, statements of all
goods sold and purchased, showing the goods, the buyers and sellers in sufficient
detail to provide easy identification.
20. Place and duration of records
(1) The accounting records of a public enterprise shall be kept at its head office or such
other place in Nigeria as the Commission may direct and shall at all times be open to inspec-
tion by such officers of the Commission as may be authorised from time to time.
(2) Subject to any direction relating to the disposal of records which may be given by the
Commission, accounting records which a public enterprise is required to keep by section 19
of this Act shall be preserved by it for a period of not less than thirty years from the date on
which they were made.

-- 9 of 53 --

21. Penalties for non-compliance with sections 19 and 20
(1) If a public enterprise fails to comply with any provision of section 19 or 20 of this
Act, every officer of the public enterprise who is in default is guilty of an offence unless he
shows that he acted honestly and that in the circumstances in which the business of the public
enterprise was carried on the default was excusable.
(2) An officer of a public enterprise is guilty of an offence if he fails to take all reason-
able steps for securing compliance by the public enterprise with the provisions of sections
19 and 20 of this Act, or has intentionally caused any default by the public enterprise.
(3) A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on conviction to imprison-
ment for a term not exceeding two years or to a tine of N500,000 or to both such imprison-
ment and tine.
Financial statements
22. Directors' duty to cause financial statement to be prepared
(1) The directors of a public enterprise shall cause to be prepared every year, in respect
of the public enterprise, financial statements in accordance with the provisions of this Part
of this Act.
(2) The financial statements required to be prepared under subsection (1) of this section
shall include-
(a) a statement of the accounting policies of the public enterprise;
(b) the balance sheet as at the last day of the year;
(c) a profit and loss account or, in the case of a public enterprise not established for
profit, the income and expenditure account for the year;
(d) notes on the account;
(e) the auditor's report;
(f) the directors' report;
(g) a statement of the source and application of funds;
(h) a value-added statement for the year; and
(i) a five-year financial summary.
23. Form and content of financial statement
(1) The financial statements of a public enterprise prepared under section 22 of this Act
shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, comply with the requirements of section 335 of
the Companies and Allied Matters Act (so far as applicable).
[Cap. C20]
(2) The balance sheet shall give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the publ ic
enterprise as at the end of the year and the profit and loss account shall give a true and fair
view of the profit or loss of the public enterprise for the year.
(3) The statement of the source and application of funds shall provide information on the
generation and utilisation of funds by the public enterprise during the year.

-- 10 of 53 --

(4) The value-added statement shall report the wealth created by the public enterprise
during the year and its distribution among various interest groups, including the employees,
the Federal, State or local government, creditors and the public enterprise.
(5) The five-year financial summary shall provide a report of vital financial information
for a comparison over a period of five years.
(6) If the balance sheet or profit and loss account drawn up in accordance with this sec-
tion does not provide sufficient information to comply with subsection (2) of this section,
necessary additional information shall be provided in the balance sheet or profit and loss
account, or in a note to the accounts.
(7) Where, after additional information has been provided under subsection (6) of this
section, special circumstances in the public enterprise prevent compliance with a requirement
relating to its balance sheet or profit and loss account from being drawn up in accordance
with subsection (2) of this section, the directors may depart from that requirement in prepar-
ing the balance sheet or profit and loss account (so far as necessary) in order to comply with
subsection (2) of this section.
(8) If the directors disregard a requirement pursuant to subsection (7) of this section,
particulars of the requirement, the reason for disregarding it and its effects shall be given in
a note to the accounts.
(9) Where there is a failure to comply with the requirement of this section as to the
preparation, matters to be stated or particulars to be given in a financial statement, every
person who was a director of the public enterprise immediately before the end of the period
prescribed for preparing the financial statement is guilty of an offence and liable on convic-
tion to a fine not exceeding NI 00,000.
(10) In the trial of an offence under subsection (9) of this section, it shall be a defence
for the director to prove that he took all reasonable steps for securing compliance with the
requirements.
Loans and other credit facilities
24. Restriction on the granting of loans, etc., to directors
(1) No public enterprise shall by itself or through its officers grant a loan, an advance or
any other credit facility to any of its directors unless the director is in full-time employment
of the public enterprise.
(2) No director of a public enterprise shall receive a loan, an advance or any other credit
facility from the public enterprise unless he is in the full-time employment of the public
enterprise.
(3) A public enterprise, officer or director who contravenes the provisions of subsec-
tion (1) or (2) of this section is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction-
(a) in the case of a public enterprise, to a fine of N200,000; and
(b) in the case of an officer or director of a public enterprise, to a fine of not less than
two times the loan, advance or credit facility, as the case may be, or imprisonment
for a term of not less than two years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

-- 11 of 53 --

25. Directors' report
(1) The directors shall cause to be prepared, in each year, a report containing a fair view
of the development of the activities of the public enterprise during the year, and of its
position at the end of that year.
(2) The directors' report shall state the names of the persons who, at any time during the
year, were directors of the public enterprise and the principal activities of the public enter-
prise in the course of the year and any signi ficant changes in those activities in the year.
(3) The report shall also state the matters and give the particulars required by paragraphs I,
3 and 4 of Part I of Schedule 5 to the Companies and Allied Matters Act.
[Cap. C20.]
(4) Part III of Schedule 5 to the Companies and Allied Matters Act, shall apply as re-
gards the matters to be stated in the directors' report as they relate to the employment,
training and advancement of disabled persons, the health, safety of work and welfare of the
employees of the public enterprise and the involvement of employees in the affairs, policy
and performance of the public enterprise.
(5) Where there is failure to comply with the requirements of this section as to the mat-
ters to be stated or the particulars to be given in the directors' report, every person who was
a director of the public enterprise immediately before the end of the period prescribed for
submitting the report is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of N500,000
or imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(6) In the trial of an offence under subsection (5) of this section, it shall be a defence for
the person to prove that he took all reasonable steps for securing compliance with the
requirements in question.
Delivering of financial statements to Commission
26. Signing of balance sheet and documents to be annexed thereto
(1) The balance sheet of a public enterprise and every copy thereof delivered to the
Commission shall be approved by the board of directors and signed on behalf of the public
enterprise by the chairman and the chief executive of the public enterprise.
(2) If the balance sheet of a public enterprise or copy thereof----
(a) is delivered to the Commission; or
(b) is issued, circulated or published,
without the approval and signatures specified under subsection (1) of this section, the publ ic
enterprise and every officer of the public enterprise who is in default is guilty of an offence
and liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding N I 00,000.
(3) The balance sheet shall be accompanied with the following documents, that is-
(a) the profit and loss account, except where it has already been incorporated in the
balance sheet;
(b) the auditor's report; and
(c) the directors' report.

-- 12 of 53 --

(4) The profit and loss account shall be approved by the board of directors and authenti-
cated on behalf of the public enterprise by any two directors appointed by the Board.
27. Penalty for delivering defective financial statements
If a financial statement of a public enterprise delivered to the Commission does not com-
ply with the requirements of this Act as to the matters to be included in, or in a note to the
financial statement, every person who at the time when the statement is so delivered is-
(a) a director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the public enterprise; or
(b) any other person purporting to act in the capacity of a director, manager, secretary
or other similar officer,
is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of not less than N 100,000.
Publication of financial statements
28. Publication by a public enterprise of full individual financial statements
(1) The provisions of this Part of this Act shall apply to the publication by a public en-
terprise of the financial statements required by section 22 of this Act to be delivered to the
Commission, including the directors' report.
(2) No public enterprise shall publish an individual financial statement for a year unless
it is accompanied with the relevant auditor's report.
(3) References in this section to the relevant auditor's report are to the auditor's report
specified under section 32 of this Act.
(4) A public enterprise which contravenes any provision of this section and any officer
of the public enterprise who is in default, is guilty of an offence and liable 10 a penalty of
N5,OOO for every day in which the default continues.
Alteration of accounting requirements
29. Power to alter accounting requirements
(1) The Commission may, after consultation with the Nigeria Accounting Standard
Board, by notice to the public enterprise or class of public enterprises, as the case may be-
(a)
(b)
(c)
add to the classes of documents to be comprised in the financial statement of the
public enterprise or class of public enterprises to be delivered to the Commission
for a year and make provisions as to the matters to be included in any document
so added;
modify the requirements of this Act as to the matters to be stated in a document
to be delivered;
reduce the number or types of documents to be delivered to the Commission in any
year.

-- 13 of 53 --

PART VI
Audit of accounts
30. Appointment of external auditors
(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of the law establishing a public enterprise, the public
enterprise shall every year appoint an external auditor or auditors from the list and in accor-
dance with guidelines supplied by the Auditor-General for the Federation, for a State or for
a local government, as the case may be, to audit its financial statements.
(2) An auditor may be re-appointed for other successive year or years if--
(a) he is not incapacitated or otherwise disqualified; or
(b) the Commission has not directed that he shall not be re-appointed; or
(c) he has not given the public enterprise notice in writing that he does not wish to be
re-appointed.
31. Qualification of auditors
(1) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as an auditor of a public enterprise
for the purpose of this Act, unless he is a member of a body of accountants established, from
time to time, by statute in Nigeria.
(2) A person shall not be appointed as an auditor of a public enterprise if-
(a) he is a director, officer or servant of the public enterprise; or
(b) he is a partner of or is in the employment of a director, officer or servant of the
public enterprise; or
(c) he is a person or firm who or which offers to the public enterprise professional
advice in a consultancy capacity in respect of secretarial, taxation or financial
management of the public enterprise; or
(d) it is a body corporate,
and for this purpose an auditor of a public enterprise shall not be regarded as a director,
officer or a servant of the public enterprise.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (1) and (2) of this section, a firm is
qualified for appointment as an auditor of a public enterprise, if all the partners are qualified
for appointment as auditors of the public enterprise.
(4) No person shall act as an auditor of a public enterprise at a time when he knows that
he is disqualified for appointment to that office and if an auditor of a public enterprise to his
knowledge becomes so disqualified during his term of office, he shall vacate his office and
give notice in writing to the public enterprise that he has vacated it by reason of that disquali-
fication.
(5) A person who acts as an auditor in contravention of subsection (4) of this section or
fails without reasonable excuse to give notice of vacating his office as required by that
subsection is guilty of an offence and liable to a penalty of N 500,000 and where the offence
continues, to a penalty of N 5,000 for every day during which the offence continues.

-- 14 of 53 --

32. Auditor's report
(1) The auditor of a public enterprise shall make a report to the directors on the accounts
examined by him and on every balance sheet and profit and loss account, copies of which
shall be delivered to the Commission during the auditor's tenure of office.
(2) In addition to other functions and powers conferred on the Commission by this Act,
the Commission shall, on receiving the auditor's report-
(a) ascertain whether the accounting and reporting policies of the public enterprise are
in accordance with legal requirements and agreed ethical practice;
(b) review the scope and planning of audit requirements;
(c) review the findings on management matters in conjunction with the auditor and
departmental responses thereon;
(d) keep under review the effectiveness of the accounting system and internal control
of the public enterprise;
(e) make recommendations to the board of directors with regard to the appointment,
removal and remuneration of the auditors of the public enterprise; and
(f) authorise the auditors to carry out investigations into any activity of the public
enterprise which may be of interest or concern to the Commission.
33. Auditors' duties and powers
(1) It shall be the duty of the auditor of a public enterprise, in preparing his report, to
carry out such investigations as may enable him to form an opinion as to whether-
(a) proper accounting records have been kept by the public enterprise and proper
returns adequate for their audit have been received from branches of the public
enterprise not visited by him; and
(b) the balance sheet of the public enterprise and its profit and loss account, if not
incorporated in the balance sheet, are in agreement with the accounting records
and returns.
(2) If the auditor is of the opinion that proper accounting records have not been received
from branches of the public enterprise not visited by him, or if the balance sheet and the
profit and loss account, where not incorporated in the balance sheet, are not in agreement
with the accounting records and returns, the auditor shall state that fact in his report.
(3) Every auditor of a public enterprise shall-
(a) have right of access at all times to its books, accounts and vouchers; and
(b) be entitled to require from the public enterprise such information and explanation
as he thinks necessary for the performance of his duties.
(4) If the requirements of section 25 of this Act are not complied with in the accounts,
it shall be the auditor's duty to include in his report, so far as he is reasonably able to so do,
a statement giving the required particulars.
(5) It shall be the duty of the auditor to consider whether the information given in the
directors' report for the year for which the accounts are prepared is consistent with those
accounts and if he is of the opinion that it is not, he shall state that fact in his report.

-- 15 of 53 --

34. Remuneration of auditors
(1) The remuneration of the auditor of a public enterprise shall be fixed by the directors.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) of this section-
"remuneration" includes sums paid by the public enterprise in respect of the auditor's
expenses.
35. Removal of auditors
(1) An auditor may be removed by the directors of the public enterprise before the expi-
ration of his term of office, notwithstanding anything in any agreement between the parties.
(2) A public enterprise which removes an auditor under subsection (1) of this section,
shall within thirty days of the removal gi ve notice of that fact in the prescribed form to the
Commission.
(3) A public enterprise which fails to give the notice required by subsection (2) of this
section, and every officer of the public enterprise who is in default is guilty of an offence and
liable to a penalty of N 500 for every day during which the default continues.
(4) Nothing in this section shall be construed as depriving an auditor removed by a pub-
lic enterprise of compensation or damages payable to him in respect of his removal as auditor
or of any appointment as auditor.
36. Resignation of auditors
(1) An auditor of a public enterprise may resign his appointment by depositing a notice
in writing to that effect at the head office of the public enterprise and the notice shall operate
to bring his term of office to an end on the date on which the notice is deposited, or on such
later date as may be specified in the notice.
(2) An auditor's notice of resignation shall not be effective unless it contains-
(a) a statement to the effect that there are no circumstances connected with his
resignation which he considers should be brought to the notice of the Commission;
or
(b) a statement of any such circumstances as are mentioned in paragraph (a) of this
subsection.
(3) Where a notice under this section is deposited at the head office of a public enter-
prise, the public enterprise shall within thirty days send a copy of the notice to the Commis-
sion.
(4) The public enterprise or any person claiming to be aggrieved by the resignation may,
within thirty days of the receipt by the public enterprise of a notice containing a statement
under subsection (2) (b) of this section, apply to the Commission for direction under subsec-
tion (5) of this section.
(5) If on an application under subsection (4) of this section, the Commission is satisfied
that the auditor is using the notice to secure needless publicity for defamatory matter, it may
direct the public enterprise to act on the notice of resignation notwithstanding that it contains
a statement made under subsection (2) (b) of this section.

-- 16 of 53 --

(6) If default is made in complying with the provision of subsection (3) of this section,
the public enterprise and every officer of the public enterprise who is in default is guilty of
an offence and liable to a penalty of N500 for every day during which the default continues.
37. Liability of auditors for negligence
(1) The auditor of a public enterprise shall in the performance of his duties exercise all
such care, diligence and skill as are reasonably necessary in each particular circumstance.
(2) Where a public enterprise suffers loss or damage as a result of the failure of its audi-
tor to discharge the fiduciary duty imposed on him by subsection (1) of this section, the
auditor shall be liable for negligence and the directors may institute an action for negligence
against him.
(3) If the directors fail to institute an action against the auditor under subsection (2) of
this section, the Commission may direct the directors to institute the action within such
period as the Commission may direct and the public enterprise shall comply accordingly.
38. False statement to auditors
(1) An officer of a public enterprise is guilty of an offence if he knowingly or recklessly
makes to the auditor of the public enterprise a statement (whether written or oral) which is
misleading, false or deceptive in a material particular and conveys or purports to convey any
information or explanation which the auditor requires or is entitled to require, as the auditor
of the public enterprise.
(2) A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on conviction to imprison-
ment for a term of one year or to a fine of N 50,000 or to both such imprisonment and fine.
PART VII
Supervision
39. Special examination
(1) Notwithstanding anything in any law establishing the public enterprise, the Commis-
sion may at any time appoint two or more qualified officers of the Commission (including
consultants) (in this Act referred to as "examiners") to make a special examination of the
books and affairs of a public enterprise under conditions of secrecy where the Commission
is of the opinion that the public enterprise-
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
may be carrying on its activities in a manner detrimental to public interest; or
may have insufficient assets to cover its liabilities; or
may be contravening the provisions of this Act; or
is unable, persistently, to pay the salaries of its employees; or
where applicable, fails to post a profit for a period deemed unreasonable by the
Commission; or
fails persistently to provide the goods and services for which it was established.

-- 17 of 53 --

(2) The examiners appointed under subsection (1) of this section shall-
(a) have power to examine periodically, and under conditions of secrecy, the books
and affairs of every public enterprise;
(b) have a right of access at all times to the books, accounts and vouchers of the public
enterprise;
(c) be entitled to require and obtain information and explanations from the officers
and directors of a public enterprise as may be deemed necessary in the perform- ance of
their duties;
(d) have access to any accounts, returns and information with respect to any public
enterprise which are in the possession of any bank or financial institution in Nige- ria in
which the public enterprise keeps or operates any account;
(e) have the right to inspect all public works and other projects for which contracts
have been awarded by the public enterprise.
(3) Any director or officer of a public enterprise who fails to assist or, in any way what-
soever, obstructs an examiner in the performance of his duties or exercise of his power under
subsection (2) of this section, is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to imprisonment
for a term of eighteen months or a fine of N 500,000 or to both such imprisonment and fine.
40. Conduct of examination
(1) An examiner shall, in performing his duties under this Act, exercise reasonable care
to prevent unreasonable hindrance to the day-to-day activities of a public enterprise and
confine the investigation to matters of fact and data deemed necessary for the examination.
(2) A public enterprise shall produce as and when required, all books, accounts, docu-
ments and all information as the examiner may deem fit in the performance of his duties.
(3) A public enterprise or an officer of the public enterprise is guilty of an offence under
this Act if it-
(a) wilfully refuses to produce any books, account, document or information; or
(b) negligently, wilfully or with intent to defraud gives an information which is false
in a material particular.
(4) A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on conviction-
(a) in the case of an offence against paragraph (a) of subsection (3) of this section, to
a fine of N500 for each day in which the offence continues; or
(b) in the case or an offence against paragraph (b) of subsection (3) or this section, to
a fine of N 500,000
41. Report of examination, etc.
(1) Not later than thirty days after the conclusion of an examination under section 40 of
this Act, the examiners shall forward a report of their findings to the chairman of the Com-
mission who shall within fourteen days forward a copy to the board of the public enterprise
and inform the board of any circumstances in which the board may exercise any of its powers
under subsection (2) of this section.

-- 18 of 53 --

(2) The board of the public enterprise shall within thirty days of receiving the report of
the examiners and information under subsection (1) of this section, examine the report of the
examiners at a meeting specifically convened for that purpose and submit its comments, if
any, on the report to the chairman of the Commission.
(3) The Commission shall not later than thirty days or receiving the comments of the
board of the public enterprise, submit the report, the comments of the board (if any) together
with the findings (if any) of the Commission to the President for his consideration.
(4) Where the report of the examination of a public enterprise reveals that the pub I ic en-
terprise has railed, that is~
(a) has persistently railed to provide the core services for which it was established;
or
(b) has liabilities which exceed its assets to an extent considered unhealthy or inimical
to the public interest by the Commission; or
(c) is unable persistently to meet its operating costs or the payment of salaries to its
employees, its creditors or contractors; or
(d) has persistently failed to produce audit reports as and when due; or
(e) has persistently failed to post a profit (if applicable) for a period of time specified
by the Commission; or
(f) has failed to manage its finances prudently arising from financial malpractice; or
(g) is likely to become unable to meet its obligations; or
(h) is for any reason whatsoever in a grave situation; or
(i) is being mismanaged,
the President may exercise anyone or more of the powers specified in subsection (5) of this
section.
(5) The President may by order in writing pursuant to subsection (4) of this section~
(a) dissolve the board of directors of the public enterprise and appoint~
(i) a new board of directors; or
(ii) a sole administrator,
to manage the affairs of the public enterprise;
(b) direct the Commission to->
(i) recover any debt being owed to the public enterprise;
(ii) remove from office any officer or director who contributed to any of the
matters revealed under subsection (4) of this section;
(iii) wind up the activities of the public enterprise and transfer its assets and
liabilities to such other body or bodies as he may determine;
(iv) take such other action as he may specify in the order.

-- 19 of 53 --

PART VIII
Duties of directors. etc.
42. Duties of directors
(1) Notwithstanding the law establishing the public enterprise, a director of a public en-
terprise stands in a fiduciary relationship towards the public enterprise and shall observe the
utmost good faith towards the public enterprise in any transaction with it or on its behalf.
(2) A director shall-
(a) act at all times in what he believes to be the best interest of the public enterprise
as a whole so as to preserve its assets, further its activities, and promote the pur-
poses for which it is established and in such manner as a faithful, diligent, careful
and ordinarily skilful director would act in the circumstances; and
(b) in the performance of his duties, consider the interest of the employees of the
public enterprise.
(3) A director shall exercise his powers for the purpose for which it is specified and shall
not do so for a collateral purpose, and the power, if exercised for that purpose shall not
constitute a breach of duty, if it incidentally affects the public enterprise adversely.
(4) A director shall not feller his discretion to act in a particular way.
(5) Where a director is allowed to delegate his powers under any provision of this Act,
the director shall not delegate the power in such a way and manner as may amount to an
abdication of duty.
(6) No provision, whether contained in any contract or otherwise, shall relieve any di-
rector from the duty to act in accordance with this section or relieve him from any liability
incurred as a result of any breach of the duties conferred on him under this section.
(7) A director shall not misuse any information, relating to a public enterprise, that
comes to his knowledge in the discharge of his duties as a director of the public enterprise
to his own or any other person's advantage.
(8) A director shall be relieved of his duty under subsection (7) of this section by the fact
that the director has for any reason whatsoever ceased to be a director of the public enter-
prise.
(9) A duty imposed on a director under this section shall be enforceable against the di-
rector by the public enterprise.
43. Conflicts of duties and interests
1) The personal interest of a director shall not conflict with any of his duties as a direc-
tor under this Act.
(2) A director shall not-
(a) in the course of management of affairs of the public enterprise; or
(b) in the utilisation of the property of the public enterprise,
make any secret profit or obtain other improper benefits.

-- 20 of 53 --

(3) A director shall be accountable to the public enterprise for any secret profit made by
him or any improper benefit obtained by him contrary to the provisions of subsection (2) of
this section.
(4) A director shall not be liable under this section if he discloses his interests before the
transaction or before the secret profit is made.
44. Multiple directorship
The duties and restrictions imposed on a director under this Part of this Act shall apply
with respect to every public enterprise of which he is a director and, in addition, he shall not
misuse the property, opportunity or information obtained in the course of the management
of one public enterprise to his own or any other person's advantage or to the advantage of
the other public enterprise.
45. Duty of care and skill
(1) A director shall exercise the powers and discharge the duties of his office honestly,
in good faith and in the best interests of the public enterprise and shall exercise that degree
of care, diligence and skill which a reasonably prudent director would exercise in comparable
circumstances.
(2) Failure to take reasonable care in accordance with the provisions of subsection (2)
of this section shall be a ground of action for negligence and breach of duty.
(3) A director shall be individually responsible for the actions of the board in which he
participated, and the absence from the board's deliberation, unless justified, shall not relieve
a director of that responsibility.
(4) Executive and non-executive directors of a public enterprise shall be subject to the
same duty of care with respect to their duties to the public enterprise but an executive
director may be subject to additional duties and liabilities where there is an express or
implied contract indicating a master and servant relationship between the executive director
and the public enterprise.
46. Legal position of directors
(1) A director is the trustee of the moneys, properties and powers of a public enterprise
and he shall-
(a) account for all the moneys over which he exercises control;
(b) refund any moneys improperly paid; and
(c) exercise his powers honestly in the interest of the public enterprise and all the
shareholders, and not in his own or sectional interest.
(2) A director shall, when acting within his authority and powers of the public enterprise,
be regarded as an agent of the public enterprise in respect of the acts of the public enterprise.
47. Substantial property transactions involving directors, etc.
(l) Subject to the exceptions specified under section 48 of this Act, a public enterprise
shall not enter into an arrangement by which-

-- 21 of 53 --

(a) a director of the public enterprise or a person connected with the director, acquires or is to
acquire one or more non-cash assets of the requisite value from the public
enterprise; or
(b) the public enterprise acquires or is to acquire one or more non-cash assets of the
requisite value from a director or a person connected with the director,
unless the arrangement is first approved by the Commission.
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1) of this section-
(a) a non-cash asset is of the requisite value if, at the time the arrangement in question
is entered into, its value is not less than N20,000 or more than NI 00,000 or
twenty per cent of the value of the net assets of the public enterprise, whichever is
higher; and
(b) the value of the net assets of the public enterprise shall be determined by reference
to the accounts prepared and delivered under this Act for the immediately preced-
ing year in respect of which those accounts were so delivered to the Commission.
48. Exceptions from application of section 47
Section 47 of th is Act shall not apply to an arrangement for the acqu isition of a non-cash
asset if-
(a) the asset is to be transferred to or acquired by another public enterprise; or
(b) the arrangement is entered into under a re-organisation scheme of the public en-
terprise directed by the Commission.
49. Liabilities arising from contravention of section 47
(1) An arrangement entered into by a public enterprise in contravention of section 47 of
this Act and any transaction entered into in pursuance of the arrangement, whether by the
public enterprise, or any other person, shall be avoidable at the instance of the public enter-
prise or the Commission, unless one or more of the conditions specified in subsec-
tion (2) of this section is satisfied.
(2) The conditions referred to in subsection (1) of this section are that-
(a) restitution of any money or other asset which is the subject matter of the arrange-
ment or transaction is no longer possible or the public enterprise has been indem-
nified in pursuance of this section by any other person for the loss or damage suf-
fered by it; or
(b) any right acquired bona fide for value and without actual notice of the contraven-
tion by a person who is a party to the arrangement or transaction would be af-
fected by its avoidance; or
(c) the arrangement is, within a reasonable period, affirmed by the Commission.
(3) Subject to subsections (5) and (6) of this section, if a director ofa public enterprise or
a person connected with him enters into an arrangement with a public enterprise in contra-
vention of section 47 of this Act, the director and the person so connected, and
any other director of the public enterprise who authorised the arrangement or any other trans-
action entered into in pursuance of the arrangement, is guilty of an offence and liable on con-
viction-

-- 22 of 53 --

transaction entered into in pursuance of the arrangement, is guilty of an offence and liable
on conviction-
(a) to account to the public enterprise for any gain which he has made directly by the
arrangement or transaction; and
(b) jointly and severally, with any other person liable under this subsection, to indem-
nify the public enterprise for any loss or damage resulting from the arrangement
or transaction.
(4) Subject to subsections (5) and (6) of this section, subsection (3) of this section is
without prejudice to any liability imposed otherwise than by that subsection and liability
under that subsection arises whether or not the arrangement or transaction entered into has
been avoided in pursuance or subsection (1) of this section.
(5) A director who enters into an arrangement in contravention of section 47 of this Act
is not liable under subsection (3) of this section if he proves that he took all reasonable steps
to secure that the public enterprise complied with that section.
(6) A person so connected with a director and any such other director as is mentioned in
subsection (3) of this Act, is not liable under that subsection if he shows that at the time the
arrangement was entered into, he did not know the relevant circumstances constituting the
contravention.
(7) In this section and in section 47 of this Act, a person is connected with a director of
a public enterprise if, not being himself a director of the public enterprise, he is-
(a) the spouse, child, step-child, father, step-father, mother, step-mother, sister,
brother or agent of the director;
(b) except where the context otherwise requires, a body corporate with which the
director is associated; or
(c) a person acting in his capacity as trustee of any trust-
(i) the beneficiaries of which include the director, his spouse, child or step-
child, or a body corporate with which he is associated; or
(ii) whose terms confer a power on the trustees that may be exercised for the
benefit of the director, his spouse, child or step-child, or a body corporate
with which he is associated; or
(d) a person acting in his capacity as partner of that director or of any person who, by
virtue of paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of this subsection, is connected with that di-
rector.
50. Directors prohibited from receiving bribes, gifts, etc.
A director of a public enterprise shall not accept-
(a) a bribe, gift, commission or any other benefit in cash or kind; or
(b) a share in the bribe, gift, commission or any other benefit in cash or kind,
from any person or a share in the profit of that person in respect of any transaction involving
the public enterprise.

-- 23 of 53 --

51. Destruction, etc.
(1) A director or an officer of a public enterprise who-
(a) destroys, mutilates, alters or falsifies any book, paper or security; or
(b) makes or is privy to the making of any false or fraudulent entry in any register,
book of account or document belonging to the public enterprise,
with intent to defraud or deceive any person, is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction
to imprisonment for a term of not less than three years or a fine of N500,OOO or to both
imprisonment and fine.
(2) A person who commits an offence under subsection (1) of this section, and, immedi-
ately before, at, or immediately after the time of committing the offence, wilfully and unlaw-
fully sets fire to any building, property or structure whatever, of the public enterprise, is
liable, in addition to any punishment imposed under that subsection, to imprisonment for life.
PART IX
Trial of offences, etc.
52. Jurisdiction
The Federal High Court (in this Act referred to as "the Court") shall have exclusive juris-
diction to try any offence under this Act.
53. Pending proceedings
Any part-heard proceeding, relating to a matter for which the Public Enterprises Tribunal
previously had jurisdiction under this Act shall in all criminal and civil cases, be discontinued
and transferred to the Court for fresh hearing under this Act.
54. Power of the Court
The Court shall have power to recover, in accordance with the provisions of this Act, the
debts owed to a public enterprise arising under the provisions of this Act or any other law or
in any other manner whatsoever.
55. Power to control property of debtors or accused
(1) Where at any stage of a hearing or trial, the Court is satisfied that a prima facie case
has been made out against a person, the Court may by order and for such time as it may direct
or requlre-
(a) prohibit any disposition of property, movable or immovable, by or on behalf of
that person, whether or not the property is owned or held by that person or by any
other person on his behalf, except to such extent and in such manner as may be
specified in the order;
(b) addressed to the manager of a bank or to the head office of the bank where the
person has an account, direct the manager or the bank to-
(i) stop all outward payments, operations or transactions (including any bill
of exchange) for the time specified in the order;
(ii) supply any information and produce books and documents,

-- 24 of 53 --

in respect of the account of that person; and
(c) where necessary or expedient, vest in the Court or otherwise, acquire the custody
of any property, movable or immovable, of the person for the preservation of the
property, pending the determination of the proceedings.
(2) An order under subsection (1) of this section shall have effect as prescribed therein,
but any such order may at any time thereafter be varied or annulled by the Court.
(3) A person who fails to comply with the requirement of an order under this section is
guilty of an offence and liable on conviction-
(a) in the case of an individual, to imprisonment for a term of not less than two years
or more than five years without the option of a fine;
(b) 	in the case of any group of persons not being a body corporate, to the punishment
of each of those persons as is prescribed in paragraph (a) of this subsection;
(c) in the case of a body corporate, to a fine of an amount equal to two times the
estimated value of the properly affected by the non-compliance or NI 00,000,
whichever is higher.
56. Jurisdiction unaffected by separation from office, etc.
The jurisdiction or authority of the Court shall not be affected by the fact that a person
charged or brought before the Court for trial or hearing-
(a) has resigned or retired from the public enterprise;
(b) has had his appointment terminated in the public enterprise; or
(c) has otherwise left the employment of the public enterprise.
PART X
Recovery of debts owed to public enterprises
57. Recovery of debts owed to public enterprises
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any law, deed, agreement or memorandum
of understanding, the Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction to hear and determine all matters
brought before it concerning the recovery from any person of any debt owed to a public
enterprise which remains outstanding as at the date of institution of the action.
58. Proof of debt
In addition to any other primary source of evidence, the examination reports and recom-
mendations of the Commission, or the report of a person appointed by the Commission on
the financial condition of the public enterprise disclosing the debt shall be sufficient proof
that the debt is owed to the public enterprise and is due for recovery under this Act.
59. Application for recovery of debts owed to public enterprise
(1) An application for the recovery of debt owed to a public enterprise shall be brought
before the Court by the Commission.

-- 25 of 53 --

(2) An application may be brought against a debtor or defendant under this section and
the Court shall proceed to hear the application in accordance with the provisions of this Act,
notwithstanding that a criminal proceeding is pending against the debtor or defendant in
respect of the same matter.
60. Debtor to appear before Court to show cause
(1) The Court shall on the return date and on receipt of a reply to the notice of an appli-
cation made under section 59 (1) of this Act, if the debtor or defendant admits the debt, enter
judgment and ask the debtor or defendant to appear before it to show cause why the Court
should not invoke its powers under this Act to recover the debt.
(2) The Court shall, if satisfied with the explanation of the debtor or defendant, give the
debtor or defendant not less than thirty days to pay to the Commission the outstanding debt
and any interest thereon.
(3) If a debtor or defendant pays the outstanding debt within the period specified under
subsection (2) of this section, the Court shall-
(a) issue to the debtor or defendant a certificate of clearance; and
(b) order that all the documents and properties, if any, pledged as security, collateral
or bond, be released to the debtor or defendant.
61. Hearing, judgment and execution
(1) If the debtor or defendant-
(a) at the expiration of the period specified under section 60 (2) of this Act, fails to
repay all the outstanding debt and interest; or
(b) disputes the amount of debt or interest,
the Court shall proceed to hear the case and enter judgment and make such order as it deems
appropriate for the purposes of this Part of this Act.
(2) Where the Court makes an order for the payment of the outstanding debt and interest
and the debtor or defendant fails to comply within the time specified in the order, the Court
shall make an order to levy execution on all the properties of the debtor or defendant, if any,
pledged as security, collateral or bond for the debt.
62. Withdrawal of application
The Commission may with leave of the Court at any time, before judgment is entered,
withdraw an application made under section 59 (1) of this Act.
63. Sale of property
(1) A property against which an order is made under section 61 (2) of this Act shall, with
the concurrence of the Commission, be sold by auction or by private contract and the money
obtained from the sale shall be applied in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(2) Where a property is sold under subsection (1) of this section, the Court shall execute
an instrument to transfer, conveyor assign the property to the purchaser or in any other way
vest the property in the purchaser.

-- 26 of 53 --

(3) An instrument executed under subsection (2) of this section shall be conclusive proof
of the title of the purchaser and shall, where necessary, be a registrable instrument under the
various registration laws, without the consent required under sections 21, 22 and 26 of the
Land Use Act.
[Cap. L5.]
(4) Any money obtained from the sale of properties under subsection (1) of this section
shall, within two weeks from the date of sale, be paid to the Commission, after all the
recovery expenses have been deducted, to offset the judgment debts and interest thereon, if
any.
(5) If the money obtained from the sale under subsection (1) of this section is not suffi-
cient to offset the judgment debt and interest thereon, the Court may, where the debtor or
defendant-
(a) is an individual. levy execution on the other properties of the debtor or defendant;
(b) is a body corporate, partnership or other association of individuals, notwithstand-
ing anything to the contrary in the Companies and Allied Matters Act or any other
enactment or law for the time being in force, levy execution on the other proper-
ties of the body corporate, partnership or association of individuals.
[Cap. C20.]
(6) Where the Court levies execution under subsection (5) of this section, the properties
shall be sold as specified in subsection (1) of this section and the provisions of subsec-
tions (2), (3) and (4) of this section shall apply to the sale and money obtained from the sale.
(7) If the money obtained from the sale of properties under subsection (6) of this section
is still not sufficient to off-set the outstanding judgment debt and interest thereon, the Court
may, subject to section 290 of the Companies and Allied Matters Act, levy execution on the
personal properties of the directors of the body corporate, partners of the partnership or
individuals of the association, as the case may be, which shall be sold and applied in satisfac-
tion of the outstanding judgment debt, in accordance with the provisions of this section.
[Cap. C20.]
64. Inadequate information on debtor, etc.
(1) Where-
(a) the information and details on the properties of the debtor or defendant are
impossible to locate; or
(b) security, collateral or bond, where required, was not provided; or
(c) the identity, of the debtor or defendant is difficult to locate; or
(d) the debtor or defendant is found to be non-existent, fake or fictions or in any way
unidentifiable,
the Court shall hold liable, for the outstanding debt and any interest thereon, the directors,
officers and other employees of the public enterprise who in the performance of their duties
were found to have been connected in any way with the transaction.
(2) The Court shall proceed to recover from the persons referred to in subsection (1) of
this section, jointly and severally the outstanding debt and interest thereon in accordance with
the provisions of this Act, unless the Court is satisfied that the debt was incurred or arose

-- 27 of 53 --

without the consent of the director, of tic er or employee and that he exercised all such
diligence as he ought to have exercised having regard to the nature of his functions and all
the circumstances or the case.
65. Exclusion of statutes of limitation
The provisions of any statute of limitation shall not apply to matters brought before the
Court under this Act.
PART XI
Offences and penalties
66. Offences by supervising officer, director, etc.
Any supervising officer, director, manager, officer or employee or a public enterprise
who-
(a) knowingly, recklessly, negligently, wilfully or otherwise awards, enters into,
approves or negotiates the award or is otherwise connected with the negotiation,
award or approval of a contract, project or any other transaction or arrangement
to any person-
(i) contrary to the accepted practice, regulation or guideline; or
(ii) with no security, collateral or bond, where such security or collateral is
normally required in accordance with accepted practice, regulation or
guideline; or
(iii) without the approval or consent of any person or authority whose consent
or approval is prescribed under any law, practice, regulation or guideline;
or
(iv) recklessly, without any reasonable belief that the public enterprise has
sufficient funds to finance or pay for the contract, project, or any other
transaction or arrangement; or
(b) awards, approves the award of or is otherwise connected with the award or
approval of a contract, project, or any other transaction or arrangement which is
above his limit as laid down under any law, practice, regulation or guideline; or
(c) awards, approves the award of or is otherwise connected with the award or
approval of a contract, project, or any other transaction or arrangement, to any
person in contravention of any law for the time being in force, or any regulation,
circular, or procedure, as laid down or approved, from time to time, by the public
enterprise; or
(d) receives or participates in sharing, for personal gratification, any money, profit,
property or pecuniary benefit towards or after the award, approval or procurement
of a contract, project or any other transaction or arrangement to any person; or
(e) recklessly awards or approves the award of any contract where the contractor is
not known to have the ability to perform or complete the contract; or
(f) 	recklessly negotiates, awards, or approves-
(i) the award of a contract at inflated; or

-- 28 of 53 --

(ii) the sale or exchange of any properly or non-cash assets of the public
enterprise at deflated or undervalued,
monetary consideration, as the case may be, or recklessly without any attempt to
determine its fair value,
is guilty of an offence.
67. Penalties for offences under section 70
A person who commits an offence under section 66 of this Act is liable on conviction,
subject to subsection (S) of section 71 of this Act, in the case of an offence-
(a) under paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of that section-
(i) where the public enterprise concerned is a failed public enterprise, to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years without an option of a
fine, in the case of a failed public enterprise;
(ii) to a fine of N 1 million or imprisonment for a term of not less than two
years or to both such fine and imprisonment, in any other case;
(b) under paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of that section-
(i) where the public enterprise concerned is a failed public enterprise, to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years without an option of a
fine, in the case of a failed public enterprise; and
(ii) to a tine of N500,000 or an imprisonment for a term of not less than
eighteen months or to both such fine and imprisonment, in any other case.
68. Contributing to economic adversity of public enterprise
(1) A person who has contributed to the economic adversity or failure of a public enter-
prise in a material particular is guilty of an offence, and liable on conviction to imprisonment
for a term of five years without any option of a fine.
(2) A person convicted under this section shall be liable to refund to the public enterprise
or the Commission the amount determined by the Court as the equivalent in monetary terms
of the loss suffered by the public enterprise as a result of the offence or of such other sum as
the Court may deem fair and just in the public interest.
69. Failure to execute contract, etc.
(1) A person who, having entered into a contract to execute any public work, including
buildings, roads, or to supply goods, materials or services to a public enterprise, without just
cause-
(a) fails to execute the public work or to supply the goods, materials or services; or
(b) otherwise abandons or fails to complete the performance of the contract,
is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of N 500,000 or to imprisonment for
a term of three years, or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) In the trial of an offence under this section, it shall be sufficient for the prosecution
to prove that the contract was duly entered into or awarded to the defendant and, thereafter,
the burden of establishing or proving the existence of just cause for abandoning or failing to

-- 29 of 53 --

'
complete the performance of the contract or to execute the public works shifts to the defen-
dant.
(3) Where a person convicted under this section is proved to have received or otherwise
been paid any money by the public enterprise under the contract, the Court-
(a) shall order the person to refund the moneys or part thereof as the Court shall find
due to the public enterprise together with interest at such rate and for such period
as the Court may determine or in lieu thereof;
(b) may order the person, within a period prescribed by the Court, to complete the
performance of the contract, or the execution of the public works, or the supply
of the goods, materials or services; and
(c) may delay the execution of his sentence of imprisonment to enable him to carry
out the order of the Court.
(4) A sum ordered to be refunded shall be deemed to be a debt owed to the publ ic enter-
prise and shall be recovered accordingly.
70. Failure to supervise performance of contract
(1) Any supervising officer, director, officer or employee of a public enterprise who-
(a) being a person having the duty or responsibility to supervise the performance of
a contract referred to in section 69 of this Act, without just cause, fails to perform
that duty or responsibility or does so negligently or recklessly; or
(b) without just cause, paid, authorised or approved or caused to be paid any money
from the funds of the public enterprise to the contractor for a contract knowing
that the contractor is in default of his performance,
is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of N 500,000 or imprisonment to a
term of three years or both to such fine and imprisonment.
(2) The onus of proving the circumstances which constitute just cause for authorising or
making the payment, or that he did not know or ought reasonably to have known that the
contractor was in default, shall lie on the supervising officer, director, officer or employee
of the public enterprise, as the case may be.
71. Determination of appropriate punishment, etc.
(1) In determining the appropriate punishment to impose on conviction of a person under
this Act, the Court shall take into consideration-
(a) the economic or financial condition or position of the public enterprise, whether
it has failed or not;
(b) whether the future financial viability of the public enterprise is in jeopardy or
peril; and
(c) the extent to which the act or omission of the offender has contributed to the
economic adversity or failure of the public enterprise.
(2) The Court may order the confiscation of the property, movable or immovable, of a
person convicted of an offence under this Act, of the value equal to the amount involved in
the offence or of such other value as the Court may deem fair and just in the circumstance.

-- 30 of 53 --

(3) A person convicted of an offence under this Act may voluntarily surrender property,
movable or immovable, of the value equal to the amount involved in the offence or such
other value as he may decide.
(4) A property confiscated or surrendered under this section shall be forfeited-
(a) to the public enterprise that suffered the loss; or
(b) in the case of a failed public enterprise, to the Commission for the benefit of that
public enterprise; or
(c) to such other person who, in the opinion of the Court, deserves to be compensated
for the loss suffered.
(5) Where, by reason of the confiscation or voluntary surrender of property under this
section, there is full or substantial recovery of the amount involved in the offence, the Court
may, if it deems it equitable, reduce or decline to impose the penalty specified in this Act for
the offence.
72. Liability of persons who are parties to carrying on fraudulent activities
If, in the course of investigation of a failed public enterprise it appears that any activity
of the public enterprise has been carried on in a reckless manner or with intent to defraud the
public enterprise, the Court, on the application of the Commission, may, if it thinks proper
so to do, declare that persons who were knowingly parties to the carrying on of the activity
in the manner aforesaid shall be personally responsible, without any limitation of liability for
all or any of the debts or other liabilities of the public enterprise as the Court may direct.
73. Attempt to commit offence, etc.
(1) A person who attempts to commit any of the offences specified in this Act is guilty
of an offence and liable on conviction to the same punishment as is prescribed for the full
offence.
(2) Where a person is charged with any of the offences specified in this Act, but the evi-
dence establishes an attempt to commit that offence he may be convicted of having attempted
to commit that offence although the attempt is not separately charged and shall be liable to
the same punishment as is prescribed for the offence under this Act.
(3) Where a person is charged with an attempt to commit an offence under this Act, but
the evidence establishes the commission of the full offence, the person shall not be acquitted
but shall be convicted of the offence and be liable to the same punishment as is prescribed
for the offence under this Act.
(4) Where, in respect of an act which is an offence under this Act, the Court is satisfied
that a person, not being a person charged with an offence under this Act-
(a) acted in concert or conspired with any person; or
(b) knowingly took part to any extent whatsoever in the commission of an act consti-
tuting an offence specified in this Act,
the Court shall have power to treat the person in like manner as a person charged with an
offence under this Act and shall proceed against him accordingly, notwithstanding anything
to the contrary in any other enactment.

-- 31 of 53 --

74. Offence by bodies corporate
(l) Where an offence under this Act which has been committed by a body corporate is
proved to have been committed with the connivance of or to be attributed to any negligence
on the part of a director, manager, or other similar officer of the body corporate, or any
person purporting to act in any such capacity, he, as well as the body corporate, where
practicable, shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded
against and punished accordingly.
(2) Where a body corporate, other than a bank, is convicted of an offence under this Act,
the Court may order that the body corporate be wound up and the body corporate shall
thereupon and without any further assurance but for that order, be wound up and all its assets,
after satisfying all the claims of the Commission, shall be forfeited to the Federal Govern-
ment.
PART XII
Miscellaneous
75. Withholding of information
(1) It shall be an offence for any person, association of individuals or body corporate
whether public or private to-
(a) refuse or neglect to give any information which the Commission may require in
exercise of its functions; or
(b) make any statement in respect of any information required by the Commission
which he knows to be false in any particular material or which he has no reason
to believe to be true.
(2) A person who commits an offence under subsection (1) of this section is guilty of an
offence and liable on conviction-
(a) in the case of an individual, to a fine of N100,000 or imprisonment for a term not
exceeding two years or to both such fine and imprisonment; and
(b) in the case of a group of individuals or a body corporate, to a fine of N 500,000.
76. Liability where proper accounts not kept
(1) If, where a public enterprise has failed, it is shown that proper books of accounts
were not kept by the public enterprise throughout the period of two years immediately
preceding the date it is declared a failed enterprise, every officer of the public enterprise who
is in default is, unless he shows that he acted honestly and that in the circumstances in which
the activity of the public enterprise was carried on the default was excusable, guilty of an
offence and liable on conviction to a fine of N2S0,000 or imprisonment for a term of two
years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) For the purposes of this section, proper books of accounts shall be deemed not to
have been kept in the case of any public enterprise if there have not been-
(a) books of accounts as are necessary to exhibit and explain the transactions and
financial position of the public enterprise, including books containing entries from
day to day, in sufficient detail of all cash received and cash paid; and

-- 32 of 53 --

(b) where the trade or business has involved dealing in goods, statements of the annual
stock takings and (except in case of goods sold by way of ordinary retail trade) of
all goods sold and purchased, showing the goods and the buyers and sellers
thereof in sufficient details to enable those goods and those buyers and sellers to
be identified.
77. Regulations
The Commission may, with the approval of the President, make regulations generally for
the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this Act.
78. Interpretation.
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-
"application" means an application made by the Commission or by a person (including
a receiver or liquidator) appointed by the Commission on its behalf for the recovery of a
debt, owed to a public enterprise;
"auditor" means an external auditor appointed under section 30 of this Act;
"board" means the governing board, by whatever name called, of a public enterprise;
"Board" means the governing Board of the Commission;
"Commission" means the Public Enterprises Regulatory Commission established under
section 1 of this Act;
"Court" means the Federal High Court;
"debt" includes any land, claims, damages, penalties, forfeitures, credit facility, money
received for work not done, mobilisation fee, refunds together with the interest thereon, if
any, which remain unsettled, outstanding and unpaid against any person in favour of a public
enterprise;
"debtor" includes a defendant or any person against whom the public enterprise claims
any debt;
"director" includes-
(a) a member of the governing board, by whatever name called, of a public enterprise;
and
(b) a wife, husband, father, mother, son, daughter, agent or trustee of a director;
"employee" means a person who is or has been employed, or connected in any capacity
with the affairs of a public enterprise or any person brought before the Court under this Act,
and includes an officer of the public enterprise;
"failed public enterprise" means a public enterprise to which any of the provisions of
section 41 (4) of this Act relates;

-- 33 of 53 --

"liquidator or receiver" includes a person appointed by the Commission to manage,
liquidate the public enterprise or to bring an application under section 62 (1) of this Act;
"loan" includes an advance, mobilisation payment, a guarantee and any other credit fa-
cility;
"officer" includes a director of the public enterprise;
"public enterprise" includes-
(a) any commission, board, agency, committee, organisation or authority established
for the Federation, under the Constitution or by any other enactment;
(b) any commission, board, agency, committee, organisation or authority established
for any State or States under the Constitution or by any Act, law or any other en-
actment;
(c) any statutory corporation or authority established by the Federal, State or local
government;
(d) any educational institution established or financed principally by the Federal, State
or local government;
(e) any company or enterprise in which the Government of the Federation, State or
local government or its agency owns controlling interest, excluding a bank or
other financial institutions under the Failed Banks (Recovery of Debts) and Finan-
cial Malpractice in Banks Act, the Banks and other Financial Institutions Act and
the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation Act;
[Cap. F2. Cap. B3. Cap. NI 04.]
"supervising officer" includes a Minister, Permanent Secretary and their representatives;
"unsecured" means without security or collateral.
79. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Public Enterprises Regulatory Commission Act.