1. Remuneration of former Presidents and Heads of State, etc.

As from the commencement of this Act all former-

(a)        Presidents and Heads of State of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (in this Act
referred to as "former Heads of State") shall be-

(i) paid the sum of N350,000 per month as up-keep allowance; and

(ii)     entitled to the perquisites of office specified in Part I of the Schedule to
this Act; and

[Part I. Schedule.]

(b)       Vice-Presidents and Chiefs of General Staff of the Federal Republic of Nigeria
(in this Act referred to as "former Vice-Presidents") shall be-

(i) paid the sum of N250,000 per month as up-keep allowance; and
(ii)     entitled to the perquisites of office specified in Part II of the Schedule
to this Act.

[Part II. Schedule.]

2. Allowances to members of families of deceased former Presidents and Heads of
State, etc.

(1) The members of families of-

(a)       deceased former Heads of State shall be entitled to the payment of the sum of
N 1 ,000,000 per annum payable in the sum of N 250,000 per quarter; and

(b)       deceased former Vice-Presidents shall be entitled to the payment of the sum of
N 750,000 per annum payable in the sum of N 187, 500 per quarter.

(2) The allowances specified in subsection (l) of this section shall be applied for the
up-keep of the spouse and education of the children of deceased former Heads of State
and deceased former Vice-Presidents up to the university level.

(3) For the avoidance of doubt, the spouse of a deceased former Head of State or de-
ceased former Vice-President shall not be entitled to the allowance specified in subsec-
tion (1) of this section if she re-marries.

3. Revision of remuneration

The remuneration of all former Heads of State and Vice-Presidents shall be subject to
review whenever there is an increase in the salary of the serving President and Vice-
President.

4. Annual budget to provide for the remuneration

The Federal Government of Nigeria shall in its annual budget make provision for the
remuneration of former Heads of State and former Vice-Presidents.

5. Interpretation

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"former Heads of State" includes former Prime Ministers of the Federal Republic of
Nigeria;

"former Vice-Presidents" includes former Chiefs of General Staff of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria.

6. Short title

This Act may be cited as the Remuneration of Former Presidents and Heads of State
(and other Ancillary Matters) Act.