1. Es tablishment of Ri ver Basins Devel opment Authorities
(1) There are hereby established eleven authorities to be known by the names speci-
fied in column I of the First Schedule to this Act which shall have such powers and exer-
cise such functions as are specified in this Act.
[First Schedule.]
(2) Each Authority shall operate within the area specified in column 2 of the First
Schedule to this Act and have its headquarters in the location specified in column 3 of the
said schedule.
[First Schedule.]
(3) Each Authority shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a com-
mon seal and may sue and be sued in its corporate name.
2. Membershi p of each Authori ty
(1) The Membership of each Authority shall consist of a chairman and seven other
persons to be appointed by the President, consisting of-
(a) a representative of the Federal Ministry of Water Resources;
(b) the general manager of the Authority; and
(c) five persons to be nominated by the Minister,
all of whom shall possess a detailed knowledge of the area of operation of the appropriate
Authority.
(2) The provisions of the Second Schedule to this Act shall have effect with respect
to the proceedings of each Authority and the other matters therein mentioned.
[Second Schedule.]
3. Tenure of office of members of eac h Authority
( 1) A member shall hold office for a period of three years from the date of his ap-
pointment and shall be eligible for re-appointment for one further term of three years and
thereafter he shall no longer be eligible for re-appointment.
(2) A member may resign his appointment by a letter addressed to the Minister.
Functions
4. Functi ons of each Authority
(1) The functions of each Authority shall be-
(a) to undertake comprehensive development of both surface and underground
water resources for multipurpose use with particular emphasis on the provision
of irrigation infrastructure and the control of floods and erosion and for water-
shed management;
(b) to construct, operate and maintain dams, dykes, polders, wells, boreholes, irri-
gation and drainage systems, and other works necessary for the achievement of

-- 2 of 8 --

the Authority's functions and hand over all lands to be cultivated under the ir-
rigation scheme to the farmers;
(c) to supply water from the Authority's completed storage schemes to all users
for a fee to be determined by the Authority concerned, with the approval of the
Minister;
(d) to construct, operate and maintain infrastructural services such as roads and
bridges linking project sites: provided that such infrastructural services are in-
cluded and form an integral part of the list of approved projects;
(e) 	to develop and keep up-to-date a comprehensive water resources master plan
identifying all water resources requirements in the Authority's area of opera-
tion, through adequate collection and collation of water resources, water use,
socio-economic and environmental data of the River Basin.
(2) Projects within the limits of the functions enumerated in subsection (1) of this
section shall be executed with the approval of the Minister responsible for matters relat-
ing to water resources.
5. Restriction on acquisition of land, etc.
(1) No Authority may acquire or lease land or take over any existing project without
the knowledge and consent of the State Governments in its area of operation.
(2) Subject to the Land Use Act, the control of land development for irrigation by
each Authority shall be as provided under sections 2 and 6 of the said Act.
[Cap. L5.]
(3) No Authority may borrow or lend money without the general or special approval
by the President.
(4) Each Authority may make bye-laws for the management of irrigation schemes
and regulating the use of water with respect to the functions specified in section 4 of this
Act, but no bye-law made in pursuance of this section shall come into force unless it is
confirmed by the President.
Staff of each Authority
6. Appointment of general manager and other stafl' of Authority
(1) For each Authority there shall be a general manager who shall be the chief execu-
tive and who shall be appointed by the President.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1) of this section, each Author-
ity shall have power-
(a) to appoint such other staff as it may determine;
(b) to pay its staff such remuneration and allowances as are payable to persons of
equivalent grades in the civil service of the Federation;
(c) as regards any staff in whose case it may determine so to do, to pay such pen-
sions and gratuities as are payable under the Pensions Act; and
[Cap. P4.J
(d) to give loans to its staff for purposes approved by the Authority.
Miscellaneous
7. Power of Mi nister to gi ve directi ons
The Minister may give to any of the Authorities directions of a general character or
relating generally to particular matters with regards to the exercise of the functions of the
Authority concerned and it shall be the duty of that Authority to comply with such direc-
tions.
8. Fund of each Authori ty
(1) Each Authority shall maintain a fund from which shall be defrayed all expendi-
ture incurred by the Authority.
(2) There shall be paid or credited to the fund-
(a) such sums of money as may be provided by the Federal Government or by the
government of any State in the Federation for the purposes of this Act either

-- 3 of 8 --

by way of loans or grants; and
(b) such other sums of money as may, from time to time, accrue to the Authority.
9. Annual esti mates, accounts and audi t
(1) Each Authority shall submit to the minister not later than 30th June of each year
an estimate of its expenditure and income during the next succeeding year.
(2) Each Authority shall keep proper accounts in respect of each financial year, and
proper records in relation to those accounts and shall cause the accounts to be audited
within six months after the end of the financial year to which the accounts relate by
auditors appointed by the Authority from the list and in accordance with the guidelines
supplied by the Auditor-General for the Federation.
10. Annual reports
(I) Each Authority shall prepare and submit to the Minister, once every year, a report
in such form as the Minister may direct on the activities of the Authority during the last
preceding financial year and shall include in the report a copy of the audited accounts of
the Authority for that year and of the auditor's report thereon.
(2) The Minister shall cause a copy of each report made to him under this section to
be submitted to the President and shall also send a copy to the Governors of the States in
the area of operation of the Authority concerned.
11. Repeals
Subject to section 6 of the Interpretation Act, the River Basins Development Authori-
ties Act 1979 is hereby repealed and the assets and liabilities of any Authority established
under the said Act are hereby transferred respectively to the Authority exercising func-
tions under this Act in the area of operation of that Authority.
[Cap. 123. 1979 No. 87.]
12. Interpretati on
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires -
"Authori ties" means the Authorities established by section 1 of this Act and when
used in the singular means any of those Authorities;

-- 4 of 8 --

-- 5 of 8 --

-- 6 of 8 --

Proceedings of the Authorities