1. Licensing of motor fishing boats
(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, no person shall operate or navigate any
motor fishing boat for the purpose of fishing or a reefer vessel for the purpose of dis-
charging frozen fish within the territorial waters of Nigeria or its exclusive economic
zone, unless that boat or reefer vessel has been duly registered and licensed.
(2) Any person operating or navigating or caus ing to be operated or navigated a mo-
tor fishing boat or a reefer vessel in contravention of subsection (1) of this section shall
be guilty of an offence under this Act and on conviction shall be liable to imprisonment
for five years or to a tine of $250,000 or to both such fine and imprisonment and in addi-
tion forfeiture of the motor fishing boat and the fish or shrimp catch on board.
(3) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any motor fishing boat or a reefer
vessel entering the territorial waters of Nigeria not for fishing or the disposal of fish, but
solely for re-fuelling at any port or for shelter, or solely because the motor fishing boat or
reefer vessel is in distress or there is any other emergency.
2. Unlicensed motor fishing boat enjoyi ng i nnocent passage
Every unlicensed motor fishing boat in transit or enjoying the right of innocent pas -
sage within Nigeria's territorial waters or its exclusive economic zone shall have its -
(a) fishing gear stowed wholly inboard;
(b) nets and trawl boards disconnected from towing warps or hauling ropes; and
(c) fishing gear above deck firmly secured to the vessel's super structure as it is
customary when steaming to and from the fishing ground.
3. Applicati on for a licence
(1) Any person being the owner of a motor fishing boat may apply to a licensing offi-
cer for a licence in respect of the motor fishing boat to--
(a) trawl for fish or shrimp in Nigeria's territorial waters or Nigeria's exclusive

-- 1 of 29 --

economic zone; or
(b) navigate for the purpose of discharging imported frozen fish in any Nigerian
port; or
(c) navigate Nigerian or foreign waters for the purpose of processing or discharg-
ing wet fish caught from such waters in any Nigerian port.
(2) An application for a licence shall be in such form and manner as may be pre-
scribed and shall-
(a) contain the particulars and descriptions of the motor fishing boat in respect of
which the application is made; and
(b) a statement in detail as to-
(i) the methods to be employed for taking fish;
(ii) the area within which it is proposed that the motor fishing boat shall
operate;
(iii) the arrangements that are to be made for the preservation and market-
ing of the catch in Nigeria; and
(iv) such particulars as may be required, from time to time, by regulations
made under this Act.
4. Grounds for issue of a licence, etc.
(1) On being satisfied that-
(a) an application for a licence has been made in the prescribed manner and con-
tains all the information that is required under section 3 of this Act;
(b) the prescribed fees have been paid;
(c) the applicant is the lawful owner of the motor fishing boat in respect of which
the application is made, and that he is a fit and proper person to be granted a
licence; and
(d) the operation of the motor fishing boat in the territorial waters of Nigeria or its
exclusive economic zone is not likely to be prejudicial to the interests of sea
fishing industry in Nigeria,
the licensing officer shall issue a licence in respect of the motor fishing boat.
(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a licence shall be in the prescribed form and
may be issued subject to such conditions as the licensing officer may think fit to impose,
and any conditions so imposed shall be endorsed on the licence.
(3) A licence shall be a yearly licence or a quarterly licence, and-
(a) if the licence is a yearly licence, it shall expire on 31 st December in the year in
which it is issued;
(b) if the licence is a quarterly licence, it shall expire on the 31 st March, the
30th June, 30th September, or 31 st December, whichever day falls next after
the date of the issue of the licence.
(4) Where the ownership of a motor fishing boat in respect of which a licence has
been issued is transferred from one person to another person, the licence shall not be
valid in respect of the new owner of the vessel until such time as a licensing officer has
approved the transfer of the ownership of the motor fishing boat and has endorsed the
licence to that effect.
(5) A licensing officer may, without assigning any reason-
(a) cancel a licence; or
(b) suspend a licence for such period as he thinks fit.
5. Operating wi th expired licence
Any person who operates a motor fishing boat with an expired licence shall be guilty
of an offence and liable on conviction to a tine of N50,000 and forfeiture of catch.
6. Renewal of a licence
The provisions of this Act relating to application for a licence and the issue of a li-
cence shall apply in relation to an application for the renewal of the licence and to such
renewal.

-- 2 of 29 --

7. Appeals
(1) Any person aggrieved by any refusal by a licensing officer to issue or renew a li-
cence or by the cancellation or suspension of a licence or by any condition endorsed on a
licence may, within fourteen days of receiving notice of the refusal, cancellation, suspen -
sion or endorsement, appeal to the Minister in respect thereof.
(2) After considering any appeal made under subsection (1) of this section the Min-
ister shall take such decision thereon as he deems fit and the licensing officer shall give
effect thereto, accordingly.
(3) The decision of the Minister on any appeal under this section shall be final.
8. Returns
The owner of a motor fishing boat in respect of which a licence has been issued
shall-
(a) render to a licensing officer such periodical returns concerning the operation of
the motor fishing boat as may be prescribed; and
(b) permit a licensing officer or any person authorised in writing by a licensing
officer to inspect the catch of the motor fishing boat either before or after the
catch has been landed and shall give the licensing officer or that person all
reasonable facilities for the inspection of the catch.
9. Enforcement of the Act
(1) An authorised person may, within the territorial waters of Nigeria or its exclusive
economic zone for the purpose of enforcing any provision of this Act-
(a) require the owner or the person in charge of a motor fishing boat in respect of
which a licence has been issued, to exhibit his licence, fishing apparatus and
catch;
(b) require the owner or the person in charge of any motor fishing boat or any per-
son engaged in fishing to exhibit his fishing apparatus and catch;
(c) go on board any motor fishing boat, search and examine the motor fishing boat
and any fishing apparatus that may be therein;
(d) where there is reasonable suspicion that an offence under this Act has been
committed, take the alleged offender and the motor fishing boat, fishing appa-
ratus and catch to the most convenient port or police station.
(2) The powers vested in an authorised person under subsection (1) of this section
may be exercised by him without warrant, summons or other process.
(3) Any motor fishing boat or apparatus taken from an alleged offender under the
provisions of paragraph (d) of subsection (l) of this section, may be detained or kept
pending the trial of the alleged offender, and the catch may be sold and the proceeds of
the sale detained or kept pending such trial.
(4) Any motor fishing boat, apparatus or money detained or kept under subsection (3)
of this section shall, unless forfeited under the provisions of sections I (2) or 13 of this
Act, be returned to the person from whom the name was taken or to the lawful owner
thereof.
(5) If a motor fishing boat, after detention under subsection (3) of this section, pro-
ceeds to sea before it is released by an authorised person or a court, the master of the
motor fishing boat and also the owner and any person who sends the motor fishing boat
to sea, if the owner or person is privy to the master's offence, shall be guilty of an offence
under this Act.
(6) In this section, "an authorised person" means-
(a) a licensing officer;
(b) any commissioned officer in the Nigerian Army, Navy or Air Force;
(c) a police officer not below the rank of assistant superintendent of police;
(d) a customs officer not below the rank of assistant preventive superintendent;
(e) a surveyor or examiner appointed under the provisions of the Merchant Ship-
ping Act; and
[Cap . M ll.]
(f) any other person authorised in writing by the Minister in that behalf.

-- 3 of 29 --

10. Prohi bi ted method of fishi ng
(1) No person shall take or destroy or attempt to take or destroy any fish within the
territorial waters of Nigeria or its exclusive economic zone by any of the following meth -
ods, that is-
(a) by the use of any explosive substance; or
(b) by the use of any noxious or poisonous matter.
(2) Any person, who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1) of this section,
shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to imprisonment for two years or a
fi ne of N50,000.
11. Offences
Any person who-
(a) contravenes or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this Act; or
(b) contravenes or fails to comply with any requirement made under this Act; or
(c) contravenes or fails to comply with any condition endorsed on a licence; or
(d) is in breach of any regulation made under this Act,
for which no penalty is prescribed, shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and liable
on conviction to a fine of N 50,000.
12. False s tatement
If any person, in furnishing any information for the purposes of procuring a licence,
makes a false statement which he knows to be false in any material particular, that person
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and liable on conviction to a fine of N50,OOO.
13. Forfei ture, etc.
A court before which any person is convicted of an offence under this Act may-
(a) order the forfeiture to the Government of the Federation of any fishing boat,
apparatus or catch employed in the commission of or derived from any act in
respect of which that person is so convicted;
(b) where the fishing boat employed in the commission of the offence is a motor
boat in respect of which a licence had been issued, cancel the licence or sus -
pend the licence for such time as the court may think fit.
14. Regulations
(l) The Minister may make regulations-
(a) for furthering the interests of sea fishing industry in Nigeria; and
(b) for giving effect to the provisions of this Act.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions of this section,