1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Sheriffs and Civil Process Act.
PART II
Interpretation
2. Interpretation
In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires -
[L.N. 47 of 1955.]
"court" includes a High Court and a magistrate's court;
"process" has the meaning assigned to it in section 19 of this Act.
Sheriff and deputy sheriffs
3. Appointment of sheriffs
There shall be appointed for each State of the Federation and the Federal Capital Terri-

-- 4 of 122 --

tory, Abuja, a tit and proper person to be the sheriff for the State or for the Federal Capi-
tal Territory, Abuja.
4. Appointment of deputy sheriffs
There shall be appointed for each State of the Federation and the Federal Capital Terri-
tory, Abuja, a fit and proper person to be the deputy sheriff who shall be subject to the
general control and direction of the sheriff.
Bailiffs
5. Appointment of bailiffs
The sheriffs may appoint such number of persons as bailiffs as may be necessary.
6. Declaration by bailiffs
Every bailiff and every other person who has authority to intermeddle with the execu-
tion of writs issued by any court of record, shall before he does so make a declaration,
which shall be exempt from stamp duty, in the form in the First Schedule to this Act, or
to the like effect, before any judge or magistrate for the division or district in which he
exercises such authority.
[First Schedule.]
Powers, duties and liabilities of sheriff, deputy sheriffs, bailiffs and
police officers
7. Sheriff may command person to arrest felon
The sheriff may command any person to arrest any person who has committed or is
suspected of having committed a felony, and any person failing to obey such command
shall on conviction be liable to a fine of N200 or to imprisonment for one year or to both
such fine and such imprisonment.
8. Sheriff to make return of wri ts
The sheriff shall receive writs and process of a court issued in accordance with this
Act and shall be charged with making returns thereto.
9. Duties at assizes
At the sessions the sheriff shall direct a sufficient number of police constables to be
employed to keep order in and within the precincts of the court.
10. Duties as to executi on of wri ts
The sheriff at the request of a person delivering a writ to him for execution shall give
a receipt for that writ stating the hour and the day of its delivery.
11. Other duties of sheriff
The sheriff shall perform any other duty or duties as may be imposed upon him by
any enactment.
12. Duties as to executi on of sentence of death
Where sentence of death has been pronounced upon any person and the President or
Governor, as the case may be, has ordered that the sentence shall be carried into execu -
tion, the same shall be carried into execution by the sheriff or a deputy sheriff or by some
person appointed by the sheriff or deputy sheriff:
[L.N. 1 o f 1955.]
Provided that if it appears to the President in the case of the Federal Capital Terri-
tory, Abuja or to the Governor in charge of a State that the attendance of the sheriff or a
deputy sheriff at the place at which the execution is to be carried out cannot be obtained
without undue delay or inconvenience, the President or Governor may detail any other
officer in the Territory or in the State, as the case may be, to perform the duties of the
sheriff in relation to such execution.
13. Duties of deputy sheri ffs

-- 5 of 122 --

Every deputy sheriff may be charged generally with the performance of the duties of
the sheriff and shall be subject to the same liabilities and protection as the sheriff,
14. Li ability for wrongful i mprisonment
A person unlawfully imprisoned by the sheriff, deputy sheriff or any bailiff appointed
by the sheriff, shall have an action against such sheriff, deputy sheriff or bailiff, as the
case may be, in like manner as against any other person that should imprison him without
warrant.
15. Duty of poli ce offi cers
It shall be the duty of every police officer to assist in the execution of process of the
court.
Protection of sheriffs
16. Protect ion of sheriff selling goods under execut ion without notice of claim by
third party
Where any goods in the possession of a judgment debtor at the time of seizure by a
sheriff, or other officer charged with the enforcement of a writ, warrant, or other process
of execution, are sold by such sheriff, deputy sheriff or other officer, without any claim
having been made to the same-
(a) the purchaser of the goods so sold shall acquire a good title to those goods; and
(b) no person shall be entitled to recover against the sheriff, deputy sheriff or other
officer or anyone lawfully acting under the authority of either of them, for any
sale of such goods, or for paying over the proceeds thereof prior to the receipt
of a claim to the said goods, unless it is proved that the person from whom re-
covery is sought had notice or might by making reasonable inquiry have as -
certained that the goods were not the property of the judgment debtor:
Provided that nothing contained in this section shall affect the right of any claimant
who may prove that at the time of sale he had a title to any goods so seized and sold to
any remedy to which he may be entitled against any person other than such sheriff, dep -
uty sheriff, or other officer as aforesaid.
17. Protection of sheriffs
Neither the sheriff nor any deputy sheriff shall be liable to be sued for any act or
omission of any police officer or other person in the execution of any process, which
shall have been done or may have occurred either through disobedience or neglect of the
orders or instructions given by the sheriff or a deputy sheriff.
Fees
18. Fees to form part of Consoli dated Revenue Fund
All fees received by the sheriff, deputy sheriff or bailiff in respect of any duty per-
formed by him in the discharge of his official duties, shall be paid into and form part of
the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the State or part of the Federation in respect of which
the fee is prescribed.
[L.N. 47 of 1955.]
PA RT III
Enforcement of judgments and orders
Executions and committals
19. Interpretation
(1) In this Part and Parts IV, V and VI, unless the context otherwise requires -
[L.N. 47 of 1955.]
"attached" includes distrained upon and seized;
"attachment" includes distress and seizure;

-- 6 of 122 --

"court" includes the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory Abuja or of the
State;
"judge" means a judge of the High Court;
"judgment" includes "order";
"judgment creditor" means any person for the time being entitled to enforce a
judgment;
"judgment de btor" means a person liable under ajudgment;
"magistrate's court" means a magistrate's court established under a Federal law or
any law of the State or under any law having effect as if it were a law of the State;
"order" includes an injunction, an order for the payment of the costs of any party,
and an order for the payment of a counterclaim by a plaintiff;
"process" means a formal written authority addressed to the sheriff for the enforce-
ment of a judgment in manner provided by this Act or prescribed, and includes writ of
execution and warrant and order of arrest, commitment or imprisonment;
"shertff" includes deputy sheriff;
"writ of execution" includes writ of attachment and sale, writ of delivery, writ of
possession and writ of sequestration.
(2) Nothing in this Part or in Part IV, V or VI of this Act shall be construed to
authorise the service or execution outside the State of the process of a court.
20. Execution of judgments or orders for sum of money
(1) Any sum of money payable under a judgment of a court may be recovered, in
case of default or failure of payment thereof forthwith or at the time or times and in the
manner thereby directed, by execution against the goods and chattels and the immovable
property of the judgment debtor in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
[First Schedule. Forms 3, 4,5 and 6.]
(2) The registrar on the application of the judgment creditor shall cause to be issued a
writ of attachment and sale whereby the sheriff shall be empowered to levy or cause to be
levied by distress and sale of goods and chattels, wherever they may be found within the
division or district of the court, the money payable under the judgment and the costs of
the execution.
(3) The precise time of the making of an application to the registrar for the issue of a
writ shall be entered by him in the book prescribed for the purpose and on the writ, and
when more than one such writ is issued they shall be executed in the order of the times so
entered.
21. Executi on of orders for payment by i nstal ments
(1) Where a court has made an order for payment of any sum of money by instal-
ments, no writ of execution for the enforcement of the judgment shall be issued until after
the default in payment of some instalment according to the order.
(2) On any such default, execution or successive executions may issue for the whole
of the said sum of money and costs then remaining unpaid, or for such part thereof as the
court may order, either at the time of making the original order or at any subsequent time.
22. Executi on to be s uperseded on payment
(1) In or upon every writ of execution against the property of any person, the registrar
shall cause to be inserted or endorsed the sum of money and costs adjudged, and the fees
for the execution of the writ.
(2) If the judgment debtor, before the actual sale of the property, pays or causes to be
paid or tendered to the registrar of the court from which the writ issued, or to the bailiff
holding the writ, the sum of money and costs inserted or endorsed as aforesaid, or such
part thereof as the judgment creditor agrees to accept in full satisfaction, together with the

-- 7 of 122 --

fees inserted or endorsed as aforesaid, the execution shall be superseded, and the property
of the judgment debtor shall be discharged and set at liberty.
23. Power to s us pend executi on
If at any time upon an inquiry made on the application of the judgment debtor,
wherein the onus of proof shall be upon him, it appears to the satisfaction of the court that
the judgment debtor has made a full surrender and disclosure of his property in the pre-
scribed manner, and that he is unable because of unavoidable misfortune to satisfy the
judgment, and that he has not been guilty of any misconduct cognisable under s ection 66
of this Act, and that his property ought to be released from attachment, the court may, in
its discretion, stay any writ of execution issued in the proceedings for such time and upon
any such terms as the court thinks fit, and so from time to time until it appears that the
cause of inability has ceased.
24. Executi on of warrants of possession
For the purpose of executing a writ to give possession of any premises, it shall not be
necessary to remove any goods or chattels from those premises.
Seizure of goods and securities and custody thereof
25. Goods which may be seized
Every sheriff or officer executing any writ of execution issued from a court against
the goods or chattels of any person may by virtue thereof seize-
(a) any of the goods and chattels of that person, except the wearing apparel and
bedding of that person or his family and the tools and implements of his trade,
to the value of ten naira, which shall to that extent be protected from seizure;
and
(b) any money, bank-notes, bills of exchange, promissory notes, bonds, specialties
or securities for money belonging to that person.
26. Custody of goods seized
Goods seized in execution under process of a court shall thereof--
(a) be deposited by the bailiff in some fit place; or
(b) remain in the custody of a fit person approved by the sheriff to be put in pos -
session by the bailiff; or
(c) be safeguarded in such other manner as the sheriff directs.
27. Dis posal of bills of exchange, etc., seized
The sheriff shall hold any bills of exchange, promissory notes, bonds, special ties or
other securities for money seized in execution under process of a court as security for the
amount directed to be levied by the execution, or for so much thereof as has not been
otherwise levied or raised for the benefit of the judgment creditor, and the judgment
creditor may sue in the name of the judgment debtor, or in the name of any person in
whose name the judgment debtor might have sued, for the recovery of the sum secured or
made payable thereby, when the time of payment thereof arrives.
28. Penal ty for obstructi ng executi on
If any person rescues or attempts to rescue any goods seized in execution under proc-
ess of a court or in any other way resists or obstructs the execution of any process for the
enforcement of a judgment of a court, he shall be liable, either on an order made in that
behalf by the court from which the writ of execution or other process issues, or on sum-
mary conviction, to a fine not exceeding NI 00, and any bailiff of the court may take him
into custody with or without warrant, and bring him before the court.
Sale of goods seized
29. Peri od to elapse before sale
(1) No goods seized in execution under process of a court shall be sold for the pur-
pose of satisfying the writ of execution until the expiration of a period of at lease five
days next following the day on which the goods have been so seized unless -
[L.N. 47 o f 1955.]
(a) the goods are of a perishable nature; or

-- 8 of 122 --

(b) the person whose goods have been seized so requests in writing:
Provided that the sheriff may, if he is unable from want of time to complete the
sale, adjourn the same for a period of not more than three days, and so on as often as may
be necessary:
Provided further that the court may, if it thinks fit, direct that the sale shall be post-
poned for any time not exceeding 28 days after the attachment.
(2) In every case where the property attached is apparently over forty naira in value,
it shall be set up for sale by the sheriff in the principal High Court or magistrate's court
house of the division or district in which the attachment is made, and if the place where
the attachment is made is not within eight kilometers of the court from which the writ of
execution issued, the judge or magistrate shall give direction as he thinks fit:

-- 9 of 122 --

Provided that the judge or magistrate may, if he thinks fit, in any particular case di-
rect the sale to be held at any other place in the district.
(3) Every sale shall take place between the hours of seven o'clock in the morning and
eight o'clock in the evening and everything set up for sale shall be knocked down to the
highest bidder for ready money.
(4) Notice of the day and hour of sale of any movable property, apparently over forty
naira in value, attached, shall be published four days at least before the day of such sale,
by being posted upon the door of the court house of the division or district in which the
attachment is made and where the sale is to take place at some other place, then at that
other place also, and if the court so directs in a newspaper published in Nigeria.
30. S ales under execution to be published unless otherwise ordered
(1) Where any goods are to be sold under an execution for a sum exceeding forty
naira, including legal incidental expenses, the sale shall, unless the court from which the
writ of execution issued otherwise orders, be made by public auction and not by bill of
sale or private contract, and shall be publicly advertised by the sheriff on, and during
three days next preceding the day of sale.
(2) Where any goods are seized in execution and the registrar has notice of another
execution or other executions, the court shall not consider an application for leave to sell
privately until the prescribed notice has been given to the other execution creditor or
creditors, who may appear before the court and be heard on the application.
31. Deli very of mova ble property in possession of judg ment debtor
Where the property sold shall consist of goods, chattels, or other movable property in
the possession of the judgment debtor, or to the immediate possession of which the
judgment debtor is entitled, and of which actual seizure has been made, the pro perry shall
be delivered to the purchaser.
Claims in respect of property seized
32. Priority of writs
When writs against the property of any person have been issued from more than one
court, the right to the property attached shall be determined according to the order of pri-
ority of the respective times of application to the registrars for the issue of the writs.
33. S ale of property where cl ai m made thereto
(1) Where a claim is made to or in respect of any property attached in execution un -
der process of a court, the claimant may-
(a) deposit with the sheriff either-
(i) the amount of the value of the property claimed; or
(ii) the sum, if any, which the sheriff is allowed to charge as costs for
keeping possession of the pro perry until the decision of the court can
be obtained on the claim; or
(b) give the sheriff in the prescribed manner security for the value of the property
claimed.
(2) For the purpose of this section the amount of the value of the property claimed
shall in case of dispute be fixed by appraisement and where that amount is deposited as
aforesaid it shall be paid by the sheriff into court to abide the decision of the Court upon
the claim.
(3) In default of the claimant complying with the foregoing provisions of this section,
the sheriff shall sell the property as if no such claim had been made, and shall pay into
court the proceeds of the sale to abide the decision of the court.
Interpleader
34. Interpleader by sheriff
(1) If a claim is made to or in respect of any property attached in execution under

-- 10 of 122 --

process of a court, or in respect of the proceeds or value thereof, the registrar may, upon
the application of the sheriff, as well before as after any action brought against him, issue
a summons calling before the court the party at whose instance the process issued and the
party making the claim.
[First Schedule. Forms 7 to 10.]
(2) Upon the issue of the summons, any action brought in any court in respect of the
claim or of any damage arising out of the execution of the writ shall be stayed.
(3) On the hearing of the summons, the court shall adjudicate upon the claim, and
shall also adjudicate between the parties or either of them and the sheriff upon any claim
to damages arising or capable of arising out of the execution of the writ by the sheriff,
and shall make such order in respect of any such claim and the costs of the proceedings
as it thinks fit.
Landlord's claim for rents
35. Clai ms for rent where goods seized in execution
(1) The landlord of every premises in which any goods are seized may claim the rent
of the premises in arrears at the date of the seizure, at any time within five days next fol-
lowing that date, or before the removal of the goods, by delivering to the bailiff or officer
making the levy a claim in writing signed by himself or his agent, stating-
(a) the amount of the rent claimed to be in arrear; and
(b) the period in respect of which the rent is due.
(2) Where such a claim is made, the bailiff or officer making the levy shall in addi-
tion thereto distrain for the rent so claimed and the cost of the distress, and shall not
within five days next after the distress, sell any part of the goods seized, unless -
(a) the goods are of a perishable nature; or
(b) the person whose goods have been seized so requests in writing.
(3) The bailiff shall afterwards sell under the execution and distress such of the goods
as will satisfy-
(a) first, the costs of and incidental to the sale;
(b) next, the claim of the landlord not exceeding-
(1) in a case where the tenement is let by the week, four weeks' rent;
(ii) in a case where the tenement is let for any other term less than a year,
the rent of two terms of payment;
(iii) in any other case, one year's rent; and
(c) lastly, the amount for which the writ of execution issued.
(4) If any replevin is made of the goods seized the bailiff shall nevertheless sell such
portion thereof as will satisfy the costs of and incidental to the sale under the execution
and the amount for which the writ of execution issued.
(5) In any event the surplus of the sale, if any, and the residue of the goods shall be
returned to the judgment debtor.
(6) The fees of the court and bailiff for keeping possession and sale under any such
distress shall be the same as would have been payable if the distress had been an execu -
tion of the court, and no other fees shall be demanded or taken in respect thereof.
Lien
36. Property subject to lien
Where the property sold consists of movable property to which the judgment debtor is
entitled, subject to a lien or right of any person to the immediate possession thereof, the
delivery to the purchaser shall, as far as practicable, be made by the sheriff giving notice
to the person in possession prohibiting him from delivering possession of the property to
any person except the purchaser thereof.
Transfer of proceedings for execution

-- 11 of 122 --

37. Executi on out of juris di cti on of court
(1) Where a writ of execution has been issued from a court, hereafter in this section
referred to as a "home court", against the property of any person and the property or any
of it is out of the local division or district of that court, the registrar of that court may
send the writ of execution to the registrar of any other court within the jurisdiction of
which the property is or is believed to be, with a warrant thereon endorsed or thereto an -
nexed requiring execution of the original writ.
[First Schedule. Form 11. Form 12.]
(2) On the receipt of the warrant, the registrar of the other court shall act in all re-
spects as if the original writ of execution had been issued by the court of which he is reg -
istrar and shall within the prescribed time-
(a) report to the registrar of the home court what he has done in the execution of
the writ; and
(b) pay over all moneys received in pursuance of the writ.
(3) Where a writ of execution is sent by the registrar of a home court to the registrar
of another court for execution under the provisions of this s ection, the judge or magistrate
of the court, as the case may be, shall have the same power as the judge or magistrate of
the home court of staying the execution under section 23 of this Act as respects any prop -
erty within the jurisdiction of that other court.
Committals
38. Issue and execution of orders of committal
(1) Whenever any order or warrant for the committal of any person to prison is made
or issued by a court, whether in pursuance of this or any other Act or Law or of Rules of
Court made under this Act, the order or warrant shall be directed to the sheriff, who shall
thereby be empowered to take the body of the person against whom the order is made or
warrant issued, and deliver him to the officer in charge of the prison mentioned in the
order or warrant.
[Order 47 of 1951.]
(2) The officer in charge of the prison mentioned in any such order or warrant shall
be bound to receive and keep the person therein mentioned until he is lawfully dis -
charged.
39. Execution of committal orders out of jurisdiction of court
(1) Where any order or warrant for the committal of any person to prison has been
made or issued, whether in pursuance of this or any other Act or Law or of Rules of
Court made under this Act, by a court hereafter in this section referred to as a "home
court", and that person is out of the division or district of that court, the registrar may
send the order or warrant to the registrar of any other court within the division or district
of which that person is or is believed to be, with a warrant thereon endorsed or thereto
annexed requiring execution of the original order or warrant.
[Order 47 of 1951.]
(2) On receipt of the warrant, the registrar of the other court shall act in all respects as
if the original order or warrant had been issued by the court of which he is registrar and
shall within the prescribed time-
(a) report to the registrar of the home court what he has done in the execution of
the order or warrant; and
(b) pay over all moneys received in pursuance of the order or warrant.
(3) Where a person is apprehended under the order or warrant he shall be forthwith
conveyed to a prison or other place of safe custody and kept therein-
(a) in a case where he is apprehended under a warrant of committal issued under
section 72 of this Act, until further order of the home court; and
(b) in a case where he is apprehended under any other order or warrant, until the
expiration of the period mentioned in the order or warrant, unless sooner dis -
charged by law.
(4) Where an order or warrant of commit ment is sent by the registrar of a home court

-- 12 of 122 --

to the registrar of another court for execution under the provisions of this section, the
judge or magistrate of that other court shall have the same power as the judge or magis-
trate of the home court of ordering the discharge of the debtor under section 75 of this
Act.
40. Liability of bailiff for neglect to levy an execution
(1) Where a bailiff, being employed to execute any process against the property or
person of a judgment debtor, loses the opportunity of executing the process by reason of
neglect, connivance, or omission, any party aggrieved thereby may complain to the court
issuing the process.
(2) On any such complaint the court, if the neglect, connivance or omission is proved
to its satisfaction, shall order the bailiff to pay such damages as it appears that the com-
plainant has sustained by reason thereof, not exceeding in any case the sum for which the
execution issued.
41. Irregularity in executing warrants
No sheriff or other officer in executing any process of a court, and no person at whose
instance any such process is executed, shall be deemed a trespasser by reason of any ir-
regularity or informality-
(a) in any proceedings on the validity of which the process depends; or
(b) in the form of the process or in the mode of executing it,
but any person aggrieved may bring an action for any special damage sustained by him
by reason of the irregularity or informality against the person guilty thereof:
Provided that no costs shall be recovered in such an action unless the damages
awarded exceed four naira.
42. Actions against bailiffs acting under warrants
(1) No action shall be commenced against any bailiff for anything done in obedience
to any process issued by a court unless-
(a) a demand for inspection of the process and for a copy thereof is made or left at
the office of the bailiff by the party intending to bring the action or his solicitor
or agent, in writing signed by the person making the demand; and
(b) the bailiff refuses or neglects to comply with the demand within six days after
it is made.
(2) If an action is commenced against a bailitf in a case where such demand has been
made and not complied with, judgment shall be given for the bailiff if the process pro-
duced or proved at the trial, notwithstanding any defect of jurisdiction or other irregular-
ity in the process, but the judge or magistrate who issued the process may be joined as a
defendant in the action, and if the judge or magistrate is so joined and judgment is given
against him, the costs to be recovered by the plaintiff against the judge or magistrate shall
include such costs as the plaintiff is liable to pay to the bailiff.
(3) In this section, except in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) thereof, the expression
“bailiff' includes any person acting by the order and in aid of a bailiff.
43. Process evidence of authority
In any action commenced against a person for anything done in pursuance of this Act,
the production of the process of the court shall be deemed sufficient proof of the author-
ity of the court previous to the issue of the process.
Execution against immovable property
44. Levy of execution upon i mmovable property
If sufficient movable property of the judgment debtor can be found in the Federal
Capital Territory, Abuja or the State, as the case may be, to satisfy the judgment and
costs and cost of execution, execution shall not issue against his immovable property, but
if no movable property of the judgment debtor can with reasonable diligence be found, or
if such property is insufficient to satisfy the judgement and costs and the costs of execu-
tion, and the judgment debtor is the owner of any immovable property, the judgment

-- 13 of 122 --

creditor may apply to the court for a writ of execution against the immovable property of
the judgment debtor, and execution may issue from the court against the immovable
property of the judgment debtor in accordance with the provisions of this Act, and any
rules made thereunder:
Provided that where the judgment has been obtained in a magistrate's court execu -
tion shall not issue out of the magistrate's court against the immovable property but shall
issue out of the High Court upon the conditions and in the manner prescribed.
45. Levy of execution upon materi als used in constructi on of a buil di ng
Where the judgment debtor is a citizen of Nigeria, and the property attached is the
right, title or interest of the judgment debtor in a building owned or occupied by the
judgment debtor, which building or the right to occupy the building the judgment debtor
is not entitled under customary law to alienate, but the materials or some of the materials
used in construction thereof the judgment debtor is entitled to remove, the right, title or
interest of the judgment debtor in such building shall not be sold without the leave of the
court first obtained, which leave may, at the discretion of the court, be refused or g ranted
with or without conditions attached.
46. Mode of levyi ng execution ag ainst buil dings
(1) Every house or other building belonging to the owner of the land on which it
stands shall be dealt with as immovable property and may be taken in execution accord-
ingly, and where any house or other building is on land which is not the property of the
owner of the house or other building, or on land held under the provisions of the Land
Use Act, all the right, title and interest of the owner of the house or other building in the
land on which the house or building is erected may be sold, together with the house or
other building, and the same shall be dealt with as immovable property, subject to the
provisions of the said Act.
[Cap. L5.]
(2) In any such case as last aforesaid any rent reserved by such lease, certificate of
occupancy or instrument and remaining unpaid shall be recoverable as in section 35 of
this Act.
47. Setti ng asi de sale for irreg ulari ty
At any time within 21 days from the date of the sale of any immovable property, ap-
plication may be made to the court to set aside the sale on the ground of any material ir-
regularity in the conduct of the sale, but no sale shall be set aside on the ground of such

-- 14 of 122 --

irregularity unless the applicant shall prove to the satisfaction of the court that he has
sustained substantial injury by reason of such irregularity.
48. When s ale becomes abs ol ute
If no such application as is mentioned in section 47 of this Act is made, the sale shall
be deemed absolute. If such application be made and the objection be disallowed the
court shall make an order confirming the sale; and in like manner, if the objection be al-
lowed, the court shall make an order setting aside the sale for irregularity.
49. Return of deposit or purchase money
Wherever a sale of immovable property is set aside the purchaser shall be entitled to
receive back any money deposited or paid by him on account of such sale, with or with -
out interest, to be paid by such parties and in such manner as it may appear proper to the
court to direct in each instance.
50. Certificate of title
After a sale of immovable property shall have become absolute in manner aforesaid,
the court shall grant a certificate to the person who may have been declared the purchaser
at such sale, to the effect that he has purchased the right, title and interest of the judgment
debtor in the property sold, and such certificate shall be taken and deemed to be a valid
transfer of such right, title and interest.
51. Immo vable property i n possession of judg ment debtor
If the property sold shall consist of a house, land or other immovable property in pos -
session of a judgment debtor or some person on his behalf or of some person claiming
under a title created by the judgment debtor subsequently to the attachment of such prop-
erty, the court shall, on the application of the purchaser, order delivery thereof to be made
by putting the party to whom the house, land or other immovable property may have been
sold or any person whom he may appoint to receive delivery on his behalf, in possession
thereof and, if need be, by removing any person who may refuse to vacate the same.
52. Obs tructing purchaser in obtaini ng possession
If the purchaser of any immovable property sold in execution shall, notwithstanding
the order of the court, be resisted or obstructed in obtaining possession of the property,
the provisions contained in section 28 of this Act relating to resistance or obstruction to
the execution of process shall be applicable in the case of such resistance or obstruction.
53. Certificate of title to be wi thhel d on s ale to an alien or of a right of occupancy
(1) Where the highest bidder at a sale is an alien for the purposes of the Land Use Act
who, were it not for the provisions of that Act, would be held to be the purchaser, a cer-
tificate of title under section 50 of this Act, not issue unless and until the approval of the
Governor is signified in accordance with the terms of that Act.
(2) Where the property sold in execution is a right of occupancy under the Land Use
Act, a certificate of title under section 50 of this Act shall not issue unless and until such
consent to the alienation of the right as is required by that Act shall have had and ob-
tained.
[Cap. L5.]
54. Applicati on of Isl amic law in the Northern States where parties are Musli ms
(1) In the application of sections 44 to 53 of this Act to the Northern States, the fol-
lowing provisions shall apply-
(a) where all the parties to a suit are Muslims; or
(b) where in any other suit the person applying for a writ of execution and the per-
son against whose property the writ is to be directed are Muslims,
the court to which application is made shall be guided by the principles of Islamic law
relating to the levying of execution of immovable property and any writ issued against
immovable property shall in such a case as aforesaid be issued subject to Islamic law and
the person applying for such writ shall prove the Islamic law on the point whether or not

-- 15 of 122 --

such Islamic law is to his benefit.
(2) For the purpose of this section any firm, body of persons or company, other than a
company limited by shares, the members of which are all Muslims, shall be deemed to be
a Muslim as if such firm, body of persons or company were an individual person.
PART IV
Judgment summons
55. Applicati on for judg ment s ummons for exami nati on of judg ment debtor
(1) Where a judgment debtor makes default in payment of any sum recovered against
him or any instalment thereof under a judgment, the judgment creditor may apply to any
court for the issue of a summons, hereinafter called a judgment summons, requiring the
judgment debtor to appear and be examined on oath as to his means, and the court shall,
unless it sees good reason to the contrary, issue such a summons.
(2) The application may be made-
(a) where the judgment or order is against one person only, or where the applica-
tion is for the issue of a judgment summons against only one of two or more
persons jointly liable under the judgment or order, in the court for the division
or district in which the debtor resides or carries on business; or
(b) where the application is for the issue of a judgment summons against two or
more persons jointly liable under the judgment or order, in the court for the di-
vision or district in which anyone of the joint debtors resides or carries on
business.
(3) The judgment creditor shall file a praecipe in the appropriate form containing the
particulars required by that form, and thereupon a judgment summons shall be issued in
such a form as is applicable to the case.
56. Praecipe for judg ment summons ; different names
Where the name or address of any person as given in the praecipe differs from the
name or address in the judgment or order both names and addresses shall be inserted in
the judgment summons as follows-
[First Schedule. Forms 13 to 15.]
C. D. of (name and address as given in the praecipe) sued or suing as A. B. of (name and
address in the judgment or order).
57. J udg ment ag ai nst firm
(1) Where a person entitled to enforce a judgment or order against a firm desires to
issue a judgment summons against any person whom he alleges to be liable under the
judgment or order he shall file a praecipe and affidavit in the required forms together
with a copy of the affidavit which shall be served with the judgment summons.
[First Schedule. Form 16.]
(2) If the person alleged to be liable does not appear on the day fixed for the hearing
he shall be deemed to admit his liability to pay the amount due but if he appears and de-
nies the liability the court may determine the question of liability on the evidence then
before it or may order the issue of liability to be tried in such manner as it thinks fit.
58. Order to bri ng judg ment debtor before court
Where it appears to the court that there is probable cause to believe the judgment
debtor, for the purpose of avoiding examination, is about to leave the division or district
in which he normally resides or carries on business, or where he does not appear in obedi-
ence to such summons, the court may in its discretion order that the judgment debtor be
brought before the court and may issue a warrant for his arrest and for his custody in the
debtors' prison until the day appointed for such examination when he shall be brought
before the court under the said warrant, unless sooner discharged by order of the court
and if he is in custody, the court may issue an order to the officer in charge of the prison
in which he is detained to bring him before the court.

-- 16 of 122 --

59. Enl arg ement of ti me and condi ti onal order
The court may enlarge the time for return to the order and may direct that the warrant
shall only issue after a certain time and in the event of the continued refusal or neglect of
the judgment debtor at the time to comply with the judgment summons.
60. Discovery of property
(1) On the appearance of the judgment debtor before the court on the summons or
warrant, he may be examined on oath, by or on behalf of the judgment creditor and by the
court-
(a) respecting his ability to pay the money directed to be paid and for the discov -
ery of property applicable to such payment, and as to what debts are owing to
him, and as to the disposal which he may have made of any property; and he
shall be bound to produce on oath or otherwise, all books, papers and docu-
ments in his possession or power relating to the property applicable to such
payment; and
(b) respecting the circumstances in which he contracted or incurred the debt or
liability in respect of which the judgment was given and respecting the means
of expectation he then had of paying or discharging the debt or liability.
(2) Whether the judgment debtor appears or not, the judgment creditor and all other
witnesses whom the court thinks requisite may be examined on oath or otherwise re-
specting the matters aforesaid.
61. Adjournment of exami nati on
The court may, if it thinks fit, adjourn the examination form time to time, and require
from the judgment debtor such security for his appearance at the adjourned hearing as
seems fit, and in default of his finding security may commit him to prison, there to re-
main until the adjourned hearing, or may discharge him from custody.
62. Interi m order for protection of property
The court may, upon such investigation as aforesaid, make an interim order for the
protection of any property applicable or available in discharge of the judgment debt, as it
shall think expedient.
63. Orders on cl ose of i nvestig ation
At the conclusion of the investigation the court may make such one or more of the or-
ders following as the case may require-
[First Schedule. Forms 17 to 20.]
(a) an order for the commitment of the judgment debtor to prison in accordance
with the provisions of section 65 of this Act;
(b) an order for the attachment and sale of the judgment debtor's property;
(c) an order for the payment of money by instalments or otherwise by the judg-
ment debtor; and
(d) an order for the discharge of the judgment debtor from prison.
64. Power of court duri ng heari ng of a cause
A court at the hearing of a cause, or at any adjournment thereof, shall have the same
power of examining the parties and other persons touching the several things mentioned
in section 60 of this Act, and of making an order for the protection of property, as if the
defendant had appeared in answer to a judgment summons.
Committal to prison
65. Power to commit debtor to prison i n certai n cases
(1) Subject to the provisions hereinafter contained, the court at the conclusion of such
investigation as aforesaid, but not otherwise, may commit to prison, for any term not ex-
ceeding six weeks, any person who makes default in payment of any debt or instalment of
any debt due from him in pursuance of any judgment or order of any court for the pay -
ment of any sum:
[First Schedule. Forms 21 and 22.]
Provided that such jurisdiction shall only be exercised where it is proved, to the
satisfaction of the court, that the person making default either has, or has had since the

-- 17 of 122 --

date of the judgment or order, the means to pay the sum in respect of which he has made
default.
(2) Proof of the means of the person making default may be given in such manner as
the court thinks just; and, for the purposes of such proof, the debtor and any witnesses
may be summoned and examined upon oath.
(3) For the purposes of this section, the court may direct any debt due from any per-
son in pursuance of any order or judgment of that or any other competent court to be paid
by instalments, and may from time to time rescind or vary such order.
(4) Any person imprisoned under this section shall be discharged out of custody upon
a certificate signed by the creditor at whose instance the debtor was imprisoned, or by
any officer of the court, to the effect that such person has satisfied the debt or instalment
of a debt in respect of which he was imprisoned, together with the prescribed costs, if
any, or upon default by the judgment creditor in payment of the allowance, if any, for the
subsistence of the judgment debtor.
Misconduct of judgment debtor
66. Non-attendance of judgment debtor
If a party summoned as a judgment debtor shall not attend as required by the sum-
mons and shall not excuse his non-attendance to the satisfaction of the court or shall ref-
use to be sworn or to disclose the matters on which he shall be examined, or shall not
answer to the satisfaction of the court, or if it appears to the court by an examination of a
judgment debtor or other evidence-
Refusal to satisfy judgment
(a) that the judgment debtor has then or has had since the judgment sufficient
means to pay the money directed to be paid by him, or part thereof, and has
made default in payment, and that such default is due to his refusal or wilful
neglect to pay on demand; or
Fraudulent disposition
(b) that with intent to defraud or delay his creditors or any of them he has made or
suffered any gift, delivery or transfer of any property, or removed property
from the jurisdiction of the court; or
Debt contracted by fraud
(c) that the debt or liability in respect of which the judgment has been given, has
been contracted or incurred by him by fraud or false pretence or breach of trust
committed by him, or by reason of any damages which he has been adjudged
to pay on account of any assault or slander committed by him; or
Forbearance obtained by fraud
(d) that forbearance of the debt was obtained by him by fraud or false pretence; or
Debt recklessly contracted
(e) that the debt or liability was wilfully contracted or incurred by him without his
having at the same time a reasonable expectation of being able to payor dis -
charge it; or
Disobedience of judg ment other than for money
(f) that the judgment debtor under a judgment other than for the payment of
money has then or has had since the judgment the power of complying with
the judgment and has refused or neglected to do so,
then and in any such case the court may, without prejudice to any of its powers in relation
to judgment summonses herein before conferred, issue a warrant for the arrest of such
judgment debtor and his detention in custody, or for his detention if already in custody,
until further order, or if it thinks fit may make an order calling upon such judgment
debtor to show cause why he should not be punished for his misconduct.

-- 18 of 122 --

67. Party i n default to be brought before the court
If such judgment debtor is arrested or in custody he shall be brought before the court
on the first convenient opportunity, and shall then, or if an order to show cause as afore-
said has been made, he shall on appearing on the return-day of the order, have opportu-
nity of showing cause why he should not be punished.
68. Commi tment of party in default
If such judgment debtor does not show cause to the satisfaction of the court why he
should not be punished, or if being ordered to show cause as aforesaid he does not attend
the court and does not establish sufficient reason for not attending, the court may remand
the judgment debtor to prison if he has been already arrested, or issue a warrant for his
arrest and commitment as for a contempt of court.
69. Penalty on misconduct of judg ment debtor
A person committed on account of any misconduct enumerated in section 66 of this
Act may not be committed to prison for a longer period than one year in any event, or for
a longer period than six months if the judgment be for payment of money not exceeding
N200, or for a longer period than three months if the judgment be for payment of money
not exceeding thirty naira.
70. Labour may be ordered in certain cases
The court may in its discretion direct that any judgment debtor ordered to be impris-
oned on account of any misconduct as aforesaid shall be employed in work within the
prison during any period of such imprisonment.
71. Labour may be s pecified by regul ations
The work shall be of such nature as may be specified by regulations made under the
Prisons Act.
[Cap. P29.]
72. Commi ttal for refus al to compl y wi th order
If any person refuses or neglects to comply with an order made against him, other
than for payment of money, the court, instead of dealing with him as a judgment debtor
guilty of the misconduct defined in paragraph if> of section 66 of this Act, may order that
he be committed to prison and detained in custody until he has obeyed the order in all
things that are to be immediately performed and given s uch security as the court thinks fit
to obey the other parts of the order, if any, at the future times thereby appointed, or in
case of his no longer having the power to obey the order then until he has been impris -
oned for such time or until he has paid such fine as the court directs.
73. Release of judg ment debtor upon satisfacti on
Where a judgment debtor has been imprisoned on account of any misconduct enu-
merated in section 66 of this Act, then upon payment of the judgment debt, together with
the prescribed costs, if any, or upon the request of the judgment creditor, or upon default
by the judgment creditor in payment of the allowance, if any, for the subsistence of the
judgment debtor, the court may make an order for his discharge, to take effect either im-
mediately or after he has been imprisoned for such portion of the term of imprisonment
ordered as the court in its discretion may think fit to appoint, and the court may also make
any order respecting the expenses of his imprisonment that may be necessary and just.
74. Applicati on for discharge
Any person imprisoned under the provisions of section 65 or 66 of this Act may apply
to the court for his discharge. The application shall be accompanied by a full statement
and account of all property of whatever nature belonging to the applicant, whether in ex-
pectancy or in possession, and whether held exclusively by himself or jointly with others,
or by others in trust for him, excepting the necessary wearing apparel of himself and his
family, and the necessary implements of his trade, if any, to the value of ten naira, and of
the places respectively where such property is to be found. The application shall be veri-
fied by oath or affidavit. [First Schedule. Form 23.]
75. Procedure on applicati on for discharge

-- 19 of 122 --

(1) On such application being made the court shall cause the judgment creditor to be
furnished with a copy of the statement and account of the judgment debtor's property and
shall fix a reasonable time within which the judgment creditor may cause the whole or
any part of such property to be attached and sold and thereafter shall fix a time for ex-
amining and hearing the parties. [First Schedule.]
(2) If the court is satisfied upon such inquiry, wherein the onus of proof shall be upon
the party applying for discharge, that the judgment debtor has made a full surrender and
disclosure of his property, and that he is unable because of unavoidable misfortune to
satisfy the judgment, and, where he has been imprisoned under section 65 of this Act, that
he has not been guilty of any misconduct enumerated in section 66 of this Act, and that
he ought to be discharged, the court may make an order for the liberation of the judgment
debtor:
Provided that if it shall subsequently be shown to the satisfaction of the court that
the debtor has not made a full disclosure the debtor shall upon the order of the court be
recommitted to prison-
(a) where he has previously been imprisoned under section 65 of this Act, for such
time not exceeding six weeks as may be specified by the court; and
(b) where he has previously been committed on account of any misconduct enu-
merated in section 66 of this Act, for such time as may be specified by the court not
exceeding the maximu m period for which he might have been com-
mitted in the first instance.
76. Imprisonment does not extinguish debt
No imprisonment under this Act shall operate as a satisfaction or extinguishment of
any debt, demand or cause of action, or deprive any person of any right to take out exe-
cution against the movable or immovable property of the person imprisoned in the same
manner as if such imprisonment had not taken place.
77. Subsequent i mprisonment for misconduct
No imprisonment under this Act shall prevent a judgment debtor from being again
imprisoned for any act of wilful disobedience or other default or misconduct rendering
him liable to be imprisoned, occurring or continuing after his imprisonment or release;
but except in such cases, a party who has once been released from imprisonment shall not
be imprisoned again upon the same judgment.
Subsistence of debtor prisoners
78. Subsistence all owance to debtor prisoners
Where the judgment debtor is committed to prison under this Act, the court shall fix
whatever monthly allowance it shall think sufficient for his subsistence, not exceeding 45
kobo per day, which shall, subject to the provisions of section 8J of this Act, be paid by
the judgment creditor by equal monthly instalments in advance before the first day of
each month to the registrar, the first payment to be made before the order or warrant of
commit ment is issued, for such portion of the current month as may remain unexpired:
Provided that if it shall be proved that any judgment debtor has sufficient means
for maintaining himself, it shall be competent for the court, after hearing such judgment
debtor, to order that no subsistence money be allowed.
79. Remo val of prisoner i n case of illness
(1) In case of the serious illness of any person imprisoned under this Act the court
may, on the certificate of a medical officer, make an order for the removal of such person
to a government hospital, and for his treatment there under custody; the period of such
person's stay in hospital shall be counted as part of his term of imprisonment and his sub-
sistence allowance shall be paid unless the court shall see fit in either case to order other-
wise.
(2) The court may order that any hospital charges in excess of the subsistence allow-
ance ordered to be paid shall be borne by the Government or the judgment creditor.
80. Subsistence money added to judg ment
Sums disbursed by an execution creditor for the subsistence of a judgment debtor in

-- 20 of 122 --

prison or hospital shall be added to the costs of the suit and shall be recoverable by the
attachment and sale of the property of the judgment debtor but he shall not be detained in
custody or arrested on account of any sums so disbursed.
81. Ex penses of i mprisonment
(1) In every case where a person is committed to prison on account of any miscon-
duct enumerated in section 66 of this Act as well as in every case of a person committed
for contempt of court, the court may direct that the expenses of the conveyance of such
person to prison and of his maintenance during his imprisonment shall be defrayed in the
first instance by the principal officer of the Treasury of the State or, in the case of the
Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, the Accountant-General of the Federation and if the
court considers that it is expedient in the interests of justice that the expenses shall be so
defrayed, the court shall so direct. [L.N. 47 of 1955.]
(2) The principal officer of the treasury of the State or, in the case of the Federal
Capital Territory, Abuja, the Accountant-General of the Federation, shall in all such cases
be entitled to recover the sums so disbursed by him by attachment and sale of the prop -
erty of the person imprisoned or he may, if the court so directs, recover such s ums from
the judgment creditor.
(3) In case the court shall not direct the said expenses to be defrayed by the principal
officer of the Treasury of the State or, in the case of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja,
the Accountant-General of the Federation, the same shall be defrayed by the judgment
creditor.
(4) The judgment creditor may in all cases recover all sums disbursed by him for ex-
penses as aforesaid from the judgment debtor by attachment and sale of the property of
the judgment debtor.
Sequestration
82. Sequestrati on
In case the person against whom an order or warrant of arrest, commit ment, or im-
prisonment issued is not and cannot be found, or is taken and detained in custody without
obeying the judgment, the court may make an order that a writ of sequestration do issue
against his property, and such writ shall be issued and executed in the prescribed manner.
PA RT Y
Attachment of debts by garnishee order
83. Debts may be g arnisheed
(1) The court may, upon the ex parte application of any person who is entitled to the
benefit of a judgment for the recovery or payment of money, either before or after any
oral examination of the debtor liable under such judgment and upon affidavit by the ap -
plicant or his legal practitioner that judgment has been recovered and that it is still unsat-
isfied and to what amount, and that any other person is indebted to such debtor and is
within the State, order that debts owing from such third person, hereinafter called the
garnishee, to such debtor shall be attached to satisfy the judgment or order, together with
the costs of the garnishee proceedings and by the same or any subsequent order it may be
ordered that the garnishee shall appear before the court to show cause why he should not
pay to the person who has obtained such judgment or order the debt due from him to such
debtor or so much thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy the judgment or order together
with costs aforesaid.
[L.N. 47 of 1955. First Schedule. Forms 25 and 26.]
(2) At least fourteen days before the day of hearing, a copy of the order nisi shall be
served upon the garnishee and on the judgment debtor.
84. Consent of appropriate officer or court necessary if money is held by public
officer or the court
(1) Where money liable to be attached by garnishee proceedings is in the custody or
under the control of a public officer in his official capacity or in custodia legis, the order

-- 21 of 122 --

nisi shall not be made under the provisions of the last preceding section unless consent to
such attachment is first obtained from the appropriate officer in the case of money in the
custody or control of a public officer or of the court in the case of money in custodia le-
gis, as the case may be.
[L.N. 47 of 1955.]
(2) In such cases the order of notice must be served on such public officer or on the
registrar of the court, as the case may be.
(3) In this section, "appropriate officer" means-
(a) in relation to money which is in the custody of a public officer who holds a
public office in the public service of the Federation, the Attorney-General of
the Federation;
(b) in relation to money which is in the custody of a public officer who holds a
public office in the public service of the State, the Attorney-General of the
State.
85. Order for attachment to bind debt
Service of an order that a debt due or accruing to the judgment debtor shall be at-
tached, or notice thereof to the garnishee, in such manner as the court may direct, shall
bind such debt in his hands.
86. Execution against garnishee
If the garnishee does not within the prescribed time pay into court the amount due
from him to the judgment debtor, or an amount equal to the judgment debt, together with
the costs of the garnishee proceedings, and does not dispute the debt due or claimed to be
due from him to such debtor, or if he does not appear upon summons, the court upon
proof of service may order execution to issue, and it may issue accordingly without any
previous writ or process, to levy the amount due from such garnishee, or so much thereof
as may be sufficient to satisfy the judgment or order, together with the costs of the gar-
nishee proceedings.
[First Schedule.]
87. Trial of liability of garnishee
If the garnishee appears and disputes his liability, the court, instead of making an
order that execution shall issue, may order that any issue or question necessary for
determining his liability be tried or determined in any manner in which any issue or
question in any proceedings may be tried or determined, or may refer the matter to a refe-
ree.
88. Lien or cl ai m of third person on debt
Whenever in any proceedings to obtain an attachment of a debt it is suggested by the
garnishee that the debt sought to be attached belongs to some third person or that any
third person has a lien or charge upon it, the court may order such third person to appear
and state the nature and particulars of his claim upon such debt.
89. Order may be made if third person does not appear
If the third person as described in the last preceding section does not appear, the court
on proof of service of a copy of the order may proceed to make an order as if such person
had appeared.
90. Procedure upon appearance of clai mants
Upon the appearance of such third person, after hearing his allegations and those of
any other person who the court may order to appear, the court may order execution to
issue to levy the amount due from the garnishee, or any issue or question to be tried and
determined, and may bar the claim of such third person, or may make such other order,
upon such terms with respect to any lien or charge or otherwise, as the court shall think
just.
91. Garnishee discharged
Payment made by or execution levied upon a garnishee under any such proceedings

-- 22 of 122 --

shall be a valid discharge to him against the debtor liable under a judgment or order, to
the amount paid or levied, even although such proceeding may be set aside or the judg -
ment or order reversed.
92. Pri vate alienati on after attachment voi d
After an attachment shall have been made by actual seizure or by written order as
aforesaid and in case of attachment by written order, after it shall have been duly inti-
mated and made known in manner aforesaid, any alienation without leave of the court of
the property attached, whether by sale, gift or otherwise and any payment of any debt or
debts or dividends or shares to the judgment debtor during the continuance of the attach -
ment, shall be null and void.
PART VI
Forms and rules
Forms
93. Us e of forms i n First Schedule
(1) Subject to the express provisions, if any, of the Rules, the forms contained in the
First Schedule to this Act may, in accordance with any instructions contained in the said
forms and with such variations as the circumstances of the particular case may require, be
used in the cases to which they apply and, when so used, shall be good and sufficient in
law.
[First Schedule.]
(2) The forms in the First Schedule may be added to, repealed, replaced or varied by
rules of court in all respects as if they had originally been so made.
Rules
94. Rules of court
The Chief Judge of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, with the approval of the
President, and the Chief Judge of a State, with the approval of the Governor, may make
rules of court in respect of any or all of the following matters -
[L.N. 47 o f 1955.]
(a) the duties of bailiffs;
(b) the procedure to be adopted by bailiffs and others on the receipt of money paid
or received at a sale in execution or otherwise in respect of process of execu-
tion and the accounting therefor;
(c) the fees and allowances, if any, to be paid to, or for the use of the services of
bailiffs and other officers of the court;
(d) the fees to be paid in respect of any application or the filing of any document
or in respect of anything done or furnished under this evidence;
(e) the conditions precedent to the issue of any process;
(f) the issue of process to or against any person or class of persons;
(g) anything to be done by any person in respect of the issue or execution of pro-
cess;
(h) the method of attaching any property;
(i) the enforcement of judgments not for the payment of money;
(j) the procedure in execution against immovable property;
(k) the entertainment and adjudication of claims to property attached or sold In
execution;
(l) the custody or disposal of property attached;
(m) the appointment of managers or receivers over attached or sequestrated prop-
erty;

-- 23 of 122 --

(n) the procedure on sale in execution of writs and the persons by whom such
sales may be conducted;
(0) the method of transfer of property, movable or immovable, shares, securities
and other chattels on sales in execution of writs;
(p) the circumstances in which proceedings in process may be transferred from
one court in a division or district to another court in the same division or dis -
trict or to a court in another division or district;
(q) the procedure to be followed in the High Court upon an application of a judg-
ment creditor in a magistrate's court for a writ of execution in respect of im-
movable property;
(r) prescribing anything or any person requires by Parts III, IV, V and VI of this
Act to be prescribed; and
(s) generally for giving effect to the provisions and intentions of Parts III, IV, V
and VI of this Act and prescribing and regulating procedure thereunder.
PA RT VII
Service of the process and enforcement of the judgments of the courts of the
Federal Capital Territory, Abuja and the States throughout Nigeria
95. Interpretation
In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires -
[L.N. 47 of 1955.]
"Capital Territory" means the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja;
"court" means a court to which Parts III, IV, V, and VI apply;
"judgment" includes any judgment, decree or order given or made by a court in a
suit whereby any sum of money is made payable or any person is required to do or not to
do any act or thing other than payment of money;
"writ of summons" includes any writ or process by which a suit is commenced or of
which the object is to require the appearance of any person against whom relief is sought
in a suit or who is interested in resisting such relief.
Service ofprocess
96. Writ of summons may be served in any part of Federation
(1) A writ of summons issued out of or requiring the defendant to appear at any court
of a State or the Capital Territory may be served on the defendant in any other State or
the Capital Territory. [L.N. 47 of 1955.]
(2) Such service may, subject to any rules of court which may be made under this
Act, be effected in the same manner as if the writ was served on the defendant in the
State or the Capital Territory in which the writ was issued.
97. Endorsement on writ for service outside a State
Every writ of summons for service under this Part out of the State or the Capital Ter-
ritory in which it was issued shall, in addition to any other endorsement or notice required
by the law of such State or the Capital Territory, have endorsed thereon a notice to the
following effect (that is to say)- [L.N. 47 of 1955.]
"This summons (or as the case may be) is to be served out of the ...................................................
................................................................................................................................................................State (or
as the case may be) ..............................................................................................................................and in
the
.....................................................................................................State (or as the case may be)."
98. Concurrent wri ts
A writ of summons for service out of the State or the Capital Territory in which it was

-- 24 of 122 --

issued may be issued as a concurrent writ with one for service within such State or the
Capital Territory and shall in that case be marked as concurrent.
[L.N. 47 o f 1955.]
99. Ti me li mited for ans wering to summons
The period specified in a writ of summons for service under this Part as the period
within which a defendant is required to answer before the court to the writ of summons
shall be not less than thirty days after service of the writ has been effected, or if a longer
period is prescribed by the rules of the court within which the writ of summons is issued,
not less than that longer period. [L.N. 47 o f 1955.]
100. Order for pl ai nti ff to gi ve security for costs
Any defendant who has been served under this Part with a writ of summons may ap -
ply to the court within which the writ was issued for an order compelling the plaintiff to
give security for costs, and upon such application the court may make the order.
[L.N. 47 o f 1955.]
101. Proceed ings where defendant does not answer to su mmons
When no appearance is made by a defendant to a writ of summons served on him un-
der this Part, if it is made to appear to the court from which the writ was issued-
[L.N. 47 o f 1955.]
(a) that the subject matter of the suit, so far as it concerns such defendant, is -
(i) land or other property situate or being in the State or the Capital Terri-
tory in which the writ was issued; or
(ii) shares or stock of a corporation or company having its principal place
of business within that State or the Capital Territory; or
(iii) any deed, will, document or thing affecting any such land, share, stock
or property; or
(b) that any contract in respect of which relief is sought in the suit against such
defendant by way of enforcing, rescinding, dissolving, annulling or otherwise
affecting such contract, or by way of recovering damages or other remedy
against such defendant for a breach thereof, was made or entered into within
that State or the Capital Territory; or
(c) that the relief sought against the defendant is in respect of a breach within that
State or the Capital Territory, of a contract wherever made; or
(d) that any act or thing sought to be restrained or removed or for which damages
are sought to be recovered, was done or is to be done or is situate within that
State or the Capital Territory; or
(e) that at the time when the liability sought to be enforced against the defendant
arose he was within that State or the Capital Territory; or
(f) in a matrimonial cause that the domicile of the person against whom that relief
is sought is within that State or the Capital Territory,
and if it is also made to appear to such court;
(g) that the writ was personally served on the defendant, or in the case of a corpo-
ration served on its principal officer or manager or s ecretary within the State or
the Capital Territory in which service is effected; or
(h) that reasonable efforts were made to effect personal service thereof on the de-
fendant, and that it came to his knowledge or in the case of a corporation that it
came to the knowledge of such officer as aforesaid (in which case it shall be
deemed to have been served on the defendant),
such court may on the application of the plaintiff, order from time to time that the plain -
tiff shall be at liberty to proceed in the suit in such manner and subject to such conditions
as the court may deem fit and thereupon the plaintiff may proceed in the suit against such
defendant accordingly.
(2) Any such order may be rescinded or set aside or amended on the application of
the defendant.
102. No i ncreased juris dicti on conferred by this Part
This Part of this Act does not confer on any court jurisdiction to hear or determine

-- 25 of 122 --

any suit which it would not have jurisdiction to hear or determine if the writ of summons
had been served within the State or the Capital Territory in which the writ was issued.
[L.N. 47 o f 1955.)
103. Process may be served in any part of Federati on
(1) When any process issued by a court of a State or part of the Federation other than
a warrant of arrest or commitment, is required to be served on any person, such process
may be served on such person in any other State or the Capital Territory.
[L.N. 47 o f 1955.)
(2) Such service may, subject to any rules of court which may be made under this
Part, be effected in the same way, and shall have the same force and effect, as if the
service were effected in the State or the Capital Territory in which the process was is -
sued.
(3) Thereupon all such proceedings may be taken as if the process had been served in
the State or the Capital Territory in which it was issued.
(4) A warrant of arrest or commitment issued by a court of a State or the Capital Terri-
tory in the exercise of its civil jurisdiction may be executed in another State or the Capit al
Territory in the manner provided in Chapter XII of the Criminal Procedure Act in the
case of warrants for the apprehension of persons charged with an offence.
[Cap. C4l.)
(5) This section does not apply to a writ of summons or any process issued in accor-
dance with Part XIII of the Evidence Act.
[Cap. E14.)

-- 26 of 122 --

Enforcement of judgments
104. Certificate of judgment
Any person in whose favour ajudgment is given or made in a court of any State or the
Capital Territory may obtain from the registrar or other proper officer or such court a
certificate of such judgment in the form and containing the particulars set forth in the
Second Schedule or as near thereto as the circumstances will permit, which certificate
such officer is hereby required to grant under his hand and the seal of such court.
[L.N. 47 of 1955. Second Schedule.]
105. Registration of judgments and proceedings thereunder
(1) Upon production of such certi ficate to the registrar or other proper officer of any
court of like jurisdiction in any other State or the Capital Territory such officer shall
forthwith register the same by entering the particulars thereof in a book to be kept by
such ofticer and to be called "The Nigeria Register of Judgment".
[L.N. 47 of 1955.]
(2) From the date of registration the certificate shall be a record of the court in which
it is registered, and shall have the same force and effect in all respects as a judgment of
that court, and the like proceedings may be taken upon the certificate as if the judgment
had been a judgment of that court.
(3) For the purpose of this section-
(a) the High Courts (including any court deemed to be a High Court) of the sev-
eral States and the Capital Territory are courts of like jurisdiction to one an-
other;
(b) the magistrates' courts exercising jurisdiction in the several States and the
Capital Territory are of like jurisdiction to one another.
106. Costs of proceedings
(1) The court in which any such certificates of a judgment has been registered may,
upon being satisfied that the registration of the judgment was reasonably justified under
the circumstances, order that the judgment creditor's costs of registration and other pro -
ceedings under this Part, to an amount to be assessed by the court, but not exceeding the
amount prescribed be paid by the judgment debtor to the judgment creditor.
[L.N. 47 of 1955.]
(2) Any such order shall be deemed to be incorporated with the certificate, and the
amount payable thereunder to be payable under the certificate.
107. Execution not to issue unless affidavit filed
No process shall be issued upon such certificate unless an affidavit is first filed in the
court out of which it is intended to issue such process made by the judgment creditor or
by some other person cognisant of the facts of the case, stating-
[L.N. 47 of 1955.]
(a) that the amount for which process is proposed to be issued is actually due and
unpaid; or
(b) that an act ordered to be done remains undone; or
(c) that the person ordered to forebear from doing an act has disobeyed the order,
and no process shall be issued for a larger amount than that sworn to.
108. Proceedings subject to control of court
The court in which any such certificate of a judgment has been registered shall, in re-
spect of the issue of process upon the certificate and the enforcement of the judgment,
have the same control and jurisdiction over the judgment as if the judgment were a judg -
ment of such court.
[L.N. 47 o f 1955.]
109. Stay of proceedings

-- 27 of 122 --

(1) The court in which any such certificate of a judgment has been registered may, on
the application of the judgment debtor order a stay of proceedings on such certificate.
[L.N. 47 o f 1955.]
(2) Such order may be made on such terms as to giving security, or as to making ap-
plication to the court by which the judgment was given or made to set aside the same or
otherwise as to the court may seem tit.
110. Notification of proceedings and of satisfaction of judgment
When-
(a) a certificate of judgment is registered in any court; or
[L.N. 47 o f 1955.]
(b) any process is issued in any court upon such certificate; or
(c) satisfaction of the judgment either in whole or in part is entered in any court
upon any such certificate,
the registrar or other proper officer of that court shall forthwith notify the same in writing
under the seal of the court to the registrar or other proper officer of the court in which the
judgment was given or made.
(2) When any judgment whereof a certificate has been registered in any court has
been satisfied in whole or in part, the registrar or other proper officer of the court in
which the judgment was given or made shall forthwith, upon such satisfaction being
made or notified, as the case may be, enter such satisfaction upon the judgment and no-
tify such satisfaction in writing under the seal of the court to the registrar or other proper
officer of every other court in which a certificate of the judgment has been registered and
such satisfaction shall thereupon be entered upon every such certificate.
111. Power to make rules
The Chief Justice of Nigeria may make rules with respect to this Part of this Act in -
cluding the making of rules of court for prescribing-
[L.N. 47 o f 1955.]
(a) the practice and procedure in connection with the execution and enforcement
by the courts of a State or the Capital Territory of the process and judgments of
the courts of other States and the Capital Territory;
(b) the practice and procedure in connection with the service of the process of the
courts of a State or the Capital Territory under this Part;
(c) the fees to be paid in connection with the service of the process of the courts of
a State or the Capital Territory under this Part;
(d) the fees to be paid in connection with the execution and enforcement under this
Part by courts of a State or the Capital Territory of the process and judgments
of the courts of other States and the Capital Territory;
(e) the costs to be allowed to a person upon the execution or enforcement under
this Part by the courts of a State or the Capital Territory of a judgment or other
process of another State or the Capital Territory; and
(f) the manner of recovery of such fees or costs.
112. Transitional provisions
(1) A judgment of the former Supreme Court which was given or made before the
commencement of this Part shall be deemed for the purposes of this Act to be a judgment
of the High Court of that State or the Capital Territory in which the judicial division in
which it was given or made (as delimited on the date of the judgment) is included and the
like proceedings may be taken under any of the provisions of this Act upon such judg -
ment as if the judgment had been a judgment of the High Court of that State or the Capi-
tal Territory.
lL.N. 47 of 1955.]
(2) A judgment of a magistrate's court which was given or made before the com-

-- 28 of 122 --

mencement of this Pari shall be deemed to be a judgment of a magistrate's court of that
State or the Capital Territory in which the magisterial district in which it was given or
made (as delimited at the date of the judgment) is included and the like proceedings may
be taken under any of the provisions of this Act upon such judgment as if the judgment
had been a judgment of a magistrate's court of that State or the Capital Territory.
(3) Where a judicial division or magisterial district in which judgment to which sub -
section (1) or (2) of this section applies was given or made is included in more than one
State or in both a State and the Capital Territory, the judgment of the High Court or
magistrate's court, as the case may be, of the State or the Capital Territory in which the
place shown on the record of the proceedings as the place of the holding of the court is
situate and the provisions of subsection (1) or (2) of this section shall apply accordingly.
(4) Where, in respect of a judgment deemed by this section to be a judgment of a
court of a State or the Capital Territory-
(a) a writ of execution has been transferred before the commencement of this Part
under the provisions of section 37 of this Act to a division of the High Court or
a district of a magistrate's court which is in another State or the Capital Terri-
tory; or
(b) a judgment summons has been issued out of a division of the Supreme Court
or a district of a magistrate's court which is in another State or the Capital Terri-
tory,
the registrar or proper officer of the corresponding division or district of the High Court
or magistrate's court, as the case may be, in that other State or the Capital Territory shall,
upon the application of the judgment creditor, enter the judgment in the Nigerian Register
of Judgments, and thereafter the like proceedings may be taken under this Act as if a cer-
tificate had been obtained and the judgment registered in that court in accordance with
the provisions of this Part.