1. Short title

This Act may be cited as the Statistics Act.

2. Interpretation

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibility for matters relating to sta-
tistics;

"Statistician" means the Federal Government Statistician;

"statistics" means information in connection with or incidental to all or any of the
matters specified in the First Schedule.

[First Schedule.]

PART II

F ederal statistics

3. Application of Part to Federal statistics

The provisions of this Part shall apply to statistics relating to-

(a)       the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja; and

(b)       items contained in the Exclusive Legislative List.

4. Statistician's duty to supervise Federal statistics

(1) Subject to the provision of the National Population Commission Act, it shall be
the duty of the Statistician, subject to any direction by the Minister-

[Cap. N67.]

(a)       to collect, compile, analyse and publish statistical information relating to the
commercial, industrial, agricultural, mining, social, economic and general ac-
tivities and conditions of the inhabitants of the Federation;

(b)       to collaborate with departments of the Government of the Federation, the
States and with local authorities, in the collection, compilation, analysis and
publication of statistical records of administrations and departments; and

(c)        generally, to organise a co-ordinated scheme of social and economic statistics
relating to the Federation.

(2) It shall be the duty of the Statistician to make such arrangements and to do all
such things as are necessary for the performance of his duties in accordance with the pro-
visions of this Part.

5. Collection and publication of Federal statistics

(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and with the approval of the Minister, there
shall be collected, from time to time, statistics either in the Federation generally or in any
part thereof.

(2) The Statistician shall cause the statistics collected under this Part to be compiled,
tabulated and analysed, and, subject to the provisions of this Act, may cause such statis-
tics or abstracts thereof to be published, with or without comments thereon, in such man-
ner as he may determine.

6. Power to obtain information

(l) The Statistician may, for the purpose of subsection (1) of section 5 of this Act-

(a)       by notice in writing require any person to furnish, in such form and manner
and within such time as may be specified in the notice, such periodical or other
information, estimates or returns concerning such of the matters set out in the