1. Transfer of functions of the former Tafawa Balewa Square Management Board
to a new Federal Board
(1) As from the prescribed date, the Board of Management formed under the Tafawa
Balewa Square Management Act, 1961 (as amended by the Tafawa Balawa Square Man-
agement (Amendment) Law 1969 of Lagos State) shall cease to exist, and-
[1961 No. 65.1969 No. 19.]
(a) the authority over, management and control of, the land, buildings, monuments
and structures situate in Lagos and formerly known as "the Racecourse", the
boundaries and the land whereof are delineated on the plan referred to in the
Lagos Racecourse (Alteration of Boundaries) Order, shall revert to the Federal
Government of Nigeria;
(b) the funds or the Board of Management, to the extent that they comprise mon-
eys voted by the Federal Government, unless the Minister for Finance by
writing otherwise directs, shall thereupon be paid to the Accountant-General of
the Federation, and shall form part of the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the
Federation.
(2) Accordingly, there shall be, for the purposes of this Act, a Board of Management
to be called the "Tafawa Balewa Square Management Board" (in this Act referred to as
"the Board"), which shall control the land known as "Tafawa Balewa Square" as de-
scribed in the Schedule to this Act on behalf of the Federal Government, and which shall
replan and reconstruct the area and maintain it for the purpose of holding national and
other important celebrations.
[Schedule.]
2. Constitution of the Board
The Board shall consist of a chairman to be appointed by the Minister and the fol-

-- 1 of 9 --

lowing other members, that is-
[1988 No. 19.]
(a) the Director of Lands, Federal Ministry of Works and Housing or his repre-
sentative;
(b) the Accountant-General of the Federation or his representative;
(c) a representative of the Ministry of Defence;
(d) a representative of the Federal Ministry of Commerce;
(e) a representative of the Lagos State Government;
(f) the President of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce or his representative;
(g) the President of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations Practitioners or his
representati ve;
(h) the President of the Nigerian Legion;
(i) the general manager and chief executive of the Board.
3. Power to regulate procedure at meetings
(1) The Board may regulate its own procedure at any meeting.

-- 2 of 9 --

(2) In the absence of the chairman at any meeting of the Board, the members present
may elect one of their number to be the chairman of that meeting.
(3) The quorum of any meeting of the Board shall be four members.
4. Functions of the Board
It shall be the duty of the Board to-1988 o. 19.]
control the use of and maintain the Square for the purpose of important na-
tional celebrations, open air rallies, festivals and other similar purposes;
carry on the business of real estate;
develop the Square to an efficient city centre;
invest in bonds and securities;
appoint such qualified persons as it may determine as employees of the Board
to assist the general manager in the exercise of his functions under this Act;
carry out such other activities as arc necessary or expedient for the full dis-
charge of all or any of the functions conferred on it under this Act.
5. Funds
The funds of the Board shall comprise-
(a) moneys voted by the Federal Government for the management, maintenance,
repair or improvement of the Square;
(b) sums received from donations, subscriptions or amounts received for damages
or otherwise howsoever;
(c) income from rents, leases of facilities and from other facilities rendered;
(d) such sums as may from time to time be lent to the Board by any body corpo-
rate or unincorporate;
(e) any other income accruing to the Board in the discharge of its functions pursu-
ant to this Act.
6. Application of funds
For the purpose of the discharge of its functions under this Act, the Board shall apply
the funds of the Square in the following manner-
11988 No. 19.1
(a) to the cost of administration and maintenance of the Square or any of its prop-
erties; and
(b) to the payment of salaries, gratuities and other benefits payable to the employ-
ees.
7. Borrowing power
(1) The Board may, with the general authority given in that behalf by the Federal
Government, borrow by way of loan or overdraft from any source any sums required by
the Board for the discharge of its functions under this Act.
[1988 No. 191
(2) The Board may, subject to the provisions of this Act and the conditions of any
trust created in respect of any property, invest all or any of its funds with the consent or
general authority given in that behalf by the Federal Government.
(3) The Board may invest any surplus funds of the Square in such securities as may
be approved with any general authority given in that behalf by the Federal Government.
8. Financial provisions
(1) The Board shall cause to he prepared not later than 30th September in each year
an estimate of the expenditure and income of the Board during the next succeeding year
and when prepared they shall be submitted to the Minister.
[1988 No. 19.1
(2) The Board shall cause to be kept proper accounts of the Square and proper rec-
ords in relation thereto and when certified by the Board such accounts shall be audited as
provided in subsection (3) of this section.
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)

-- 3 of 9 --

(3) The Board shall cause the accounts of the Square to be audited within six months
after the end of the financial year to which the accounts relate by a firm of auditors ap-
pointed from the list and in accordance with the guidelines supplied by the Auditor-
General for the Federation.
(4) The Board shall not later than 30 June in each year submit a report on the activi-
ties of the Square and its administration during the immediately preceding year and shall
include in such report the audited accounts of the Board to the Secretary to the Govern-
ment of the Federation who shall submit the report to the President.
9. Appointment of general manager and other staff of the Board
(1) There shall be a general manager of the Board who shall be appointed by the
Board with the prior approval of the Minister.
(2) Subject to the general control of the Board, the general manager shall be the chief
executive of the Board and shall be responsible for the execution of the policy of the
Board and the day-to-day running of the affairs of the Square.
(3) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1) of this section, the Board
shall have power-
(a) to appoint a secretary to the Board and such other staff as it may from time to
time determine;
(b) to pay its staff remuneration and allowances as it may, with the approval of the
Minister, determine;
(c) to pay in respect of any staff such pensions and gratuities as are payable to
persons of equi valent grade in the civil service of the Federation;
(d) to give loans to its staff for purposes approved by the Minister; and
(e) to establish and maintain a medical benefit fund from which the staff may re-
cei ve benefi ts there from.
(4) The secretary to the Board shall be responsible for taking minutes of meetings of
the Board and shall perform such other duties as the Board or the general manager may
assign to him from time to time.
10. StatT regulations
(1) The Board may, subject to the provisions of this Act, make staff regulations re-
lating generally to the conditions of service of the employees of the Board and without
prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, such regulations may provide for-
[1988 No. 191
(a) the appointment, promotion and disciplinary control (including dismissal) of
employees of the Board; and
(b) appeals by such employees against dismissal or other disciplinary measures,
and until such regulations are made, any instrument relating to the conditions of service
in the civil service of the Federation shall be applicable, with such modifications as may
be necessary, to the employees of the Board.
(2) Staff regulations made under subsection (1) of this section shall not have effect
until approved by the Minister, and when so approved they need not be published in the
Federal Gazette but the Board shall cause them to be brought to the notice of all affected
persons in such manner as it may from time to time determine.
(3) For the purposes of pension, service with the Board shall be declared public
service under the provisions of the Pensions Act.
[Cap. P4.J
11. Power of making bye-laws
(1) The Board may, with the consent of the Minister, make bye-laws for all or any of
the following purposes, that is to say-
(a) for the management, control and regulation of the Square and for regulating
the arrangements for the holding of national and other celebrations;
(b) for the appointment and removal of its servants and for regulating their duties,
conduct and remuneration;
(c) for the removal by any police constable or person authorised by the Board of
any person infringing the bye-laws;

-- 4 of 9 --

(d) for the promotion of different forms of recreation;
(e) for the preservation of growing trees or plants;
(f) for preventing injury and damage to the land or to any buildings, monuments,
fences or seats thereon; and
(g) generally for carrying into effect the purposes of this Act.
(2) A court before which any person is convicted of committing a breach of any bye-
laws may, in addition to any penalty which may be imposed, order the person convicted
to pay to the Board the actual or estimated cost of repairing any damage or injury done.

-- 5 of 9 --

12. Proceedings for breach, etc., of bye-laws
Proceedings in respect of any breach of a bye-law or damage under this Act shall be
taken in the name of the Attorney-General of the Federation.
13. Procedure in respect of suits against the Board
(1) No suit shall be commenced against the Board before the expiration of a period of
one month after written notice of intention to commence the suit shall have been served
upon the Board by the intending plaintiff or his agent; and the notice shall clearly and
explicitly state-
(a) the cause of action;
(b) the particulars of the claim;
(c) the name and place of abode of the intending plaintiff; and
(d) the relief which he claims.
(2) The notice referred to in subsection (1) of this section and any summons, notices
or other documents required or authorised to be served upon the Board in connection with
any suit by or against the Board shall be served by delivering the same to the chairman or
the general manager of the Board.
14. Restriction on execution against the property of the Board
In any action or suit against the Board no execution or attachment or process in the
nature thereof shall be issued against the Board but any sums of money which by judg-
ment of the court is awarded against the Board shall, subject to any direction given by the
Board, be paid from the funds of the Board.
15. Representation of the Board at hearing of suit
In any suit pending before a court, the Board may be represented at any stage of the
proceedings by any servant or agent of the Board who shall satisfy the court that he is
duly authorised in writing by the Board in that behalf.
16. Repeals, etc.
(1) The following enactments are hereby repealed, that is-
(a) the Tafawa Balawa Square Management Act, 1961 (which was by operation of
law rendered redundant);
[1961 No. 65.1969 No. 10.]
(b) the Tafawa Balawa Square Management (Amendment Law 1969 of Lagos
State.)
(2) Any proceedings instituted before the commencement of this Act under any en-
actment or provision repealed by subsection (1) of this section may continue and be com-
pleted as i I' this Act had not been passed.
17. Interpretation
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-
"Board" means the Tafawa Balawa Square Board of Management established by this
Act;
[1988 No. 19.]
"Minister" means the Minister charged with responsibility for matters relating to de-
fence;
"prescribed date" means 24th August 1972;
"Square" means the Tafawa Balawa Square;
"suit" includes action and any civil proceedings commenced by writ of summons or
in such other manner as may be prescribed by rules of court and does not include a crimi-
nal proceeding.

-- 6 of 9 --

18. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Tafawa Balawa Square Management Act.