1. Incorporation and objects of the University of Abuja

(1)  There is hereby established the University of Abuja (in this Act referred to as "the
University") which shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a cornmon
seal.

(2) The University may sue or be sued in its corporate name.
(3) The objects of the University shall be-

(a) to encourage the advancement of learning and to hold out to all persons without distinction
of race, creed, sex or political conviction the opportunity of acquiring a higher and liberal education;

(b)    to provide courses of instruction and other facilities for the pursuit of learning
in all its branches, and to make those facilities available on proper terms to such persons as are
equipped to benefit from them;

(c)     to encourage and promote scholarship and conduct research in all fields of
learning and human endeavour;

(d)    to relate its activities to the social, cultural and economic needs of the people
of Nigeria;

(e)     to undertake, as part of its academic programmes, distant learning and part-
time courses in various disciplines to cater for the interest of the working class
or those who could not benefit directly in full-time University education; and

(f)         to undertake any other activities appropriate for a university of the highest
standard.

2. Constitution and principal officers of the University(1) The University shall consist of-

(a)    a Chancellor;

(b)    a Pro-Chancellor and a Council;

(c)     a Vice-Chancellor and a Senate;

(d)    a body to be called Congregation;

(e)     a body to be called Convocation;

(f)     the campuses and colleges of the University;

(g)    the faculties, schools, institutes and other teaching and research units of the
University;

(h)    the persons holding the offices constituted by First Schedule to this Act other
than those mentioned in paragraph (a) to (c) of this subsection;

(i)     all graduates and undergraduates of the U ni versity; and

(j)     all other persons who are members of the University in accordance with provisions
made by statute in that behalf.

(2) The First Schedule to this Act shall have effect with respect to the principal officers of the University therein mentioned.

[First Schedule.]

(3) Subject to section 5 of this Act, provisions shall be made by statute with respect
to the constitution of the Council, the Senate, Congregation and Convocation.

3. Powers of each University and their exercise

(1) For the carrying out of its objects as specified in section 1 of this Act, the University shall have power-

(a)     to establish such campuses, colleges, faculties, institutes, schools, extra-mural
departments and other teaching and research units within the University as
may, from time to time, be deemed necessary or desirable subject to the approval of the National
Universities Commission;

(b)     to institute professorships, readerships or associate professorships, lectureships
and other posts and offices and to make appointments thereto;

(c)     to institute and award fellowships, scholarships, exhibitions, bursaries, medals,
prizes and other titles, distinctions, awards and other forms of assistance;

(d)    to provide for the discipline and welfare of members of the University;

(e)     to hold examinations and grant degrees, diplomas, certificates and other distinctions to
persons who have pursued a course of study approved by the University and have satisfied such
other requirements as the University may lay down;

(f)      to award honorary degrees, fellowships or academic titles;

(g)     to demand and receive from any student or any other person attending the University for the
purpose of instruction such fees as the University may, from time to time, determine subject to the overall
directives of the Minister;

(h)     subject to section 22 of this Act, to acquire, hold, grant, charge or otherwise
deal with or dispose of movable and immovable property wherever situate;

(i)      to accept gifts, legacies and donations, but without obligation to accept the
same for a particular purpose unless it approves the terms and conditions attaching thereto;

(j)     to enter into contracts, establish trusts, act as trustee, solely or jointly with any
other person, and employ and act through agents;

(k)     to erect, provide, equip and maintain libraries, laboratories, lecture halls, halls
of residence, refectories, sports grounds, playing fields and other buildings or
things necessary or suitable or convenient for any of the objects of the University;

(l)     to hold public lectures and to undertake printing, publishing and book-selling;

(m)    subject to any limitations on conditions imposed by statute, to invest any
money appertaining to the University by way of endowment, not being immediately
required for current expenditure, in any investments or securities or the
purchase or improvement of land, with power from time to time to vary any
such investments and to deposit any money for the time being not invested
with any bank on deposit or current account;

(n)    to borrow, whether on interest or not if need be upon the security of any or all
of the property, movable or immovable, of the University, such moneys as the
Council may, from time to time, in its discretion find it necessary or expedient
to borrow or to guarantee any loan, advances or credit facilities;

(0)    to make gifts for any charitable purpose;

(P)    to arrange for the general welfare of children of members of staff;

(q)    to do anything which it is authorised or required by this Act or by statute to do;
and

(r)     to do all such acts or things, whether or not incidental to the foregoing powers,
as may advance the objects of the University.

(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act and of the statutes and without prejudice to
section 8 (2) of this Act, the powers conferred on the University by subsection (1)  of this
section shall be exercisable on behalf of the University by the Councilor by the Senate or
in any other manner, which may be authorised by statute.

(3) The power of the University to establish further campuses and colleges within the
University shall be exercisable by statute and not otherwise.

4. Functions of the Chancellor and Pro-Chancellor

(1) The Chancellor shall, in relation to the University, take precedence before all
other members of the University and when he is present shall preside at all meetings of
Convocation held for conferring degrees.

(2) Every proposal to confer an honorary degree shall be subject to the confirmation
of the Chancellor.

(3) The Pro-Chancellor shall, in relation to the University take precedence before all
other members of the University, except the Chancellor and except the Vice-Chancellor
when acting as chairman of Congregation or Convocation and the Pro-Chancellor shall,
when he is present, be the Chairman at all meetings of the Council.

5. Composition of the Council

The Council of the University shall consist of-
[1996 No. 25.]

(a)       the Pro-Chancellor;

(b)       the Vice-Chancellor;

(c)        the Deputy Vice-Chancellors;

(d)       one person from the Ministry responsible for education;

(e)         nine persons representing a variety of interests and broadly representative of
the whole Federation to be appointed by the President;

(f)        four persons appointed by the Senate from among its members;

(g)       two persons appointed by the Congregation from among its members;

(h)       one person appointed by Convocation from among its members.

6. Functions of the Council and its Finance and General Purposes Committee

(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act relating to the Visitor, the Council shall be
the governing body of each University and shall be charged with the general control and
superintendence of the policy, finance and property of the University including its public
relations.

(2) There shall be a committee of the Council to be known as the Finance and General
Purposes Committee, which shall, subject to the directions of the Council, exercise
control over the property and expenditure of the University and perform such other functions of
the Council as the Council may, from time to time, delegate to it.

(3) Provision shall be made by statute with respect to the constitution of the Finance
and General Purposes Committee.

(4) The Council shall ensure that proper accounts of the University are kept and that
the accounts of the University are audited annually by an independent firm of auditors
approved by the Council and that an annual report is published by the University together
with certified copies of the said accounts as audited.

(5) Subject to this Act and the statutes, the Council and the Finance and General Purposes
Committee may each make rules for the purpose of exercising any of their respective functions
or of regulating their own procedure.

(6) Rules made under subsection (5) of this section by the Finance and General Purposes
Committee shall not come into force unless approved by the Council; and in so far
and to the extent that any rules so made by that Committee conflict with any directions
given by the Council whether before or after the coming into force of the rules in question,
the directions of the Council shall prevail.

(7) There shall be paid to the members respectively of the Council, the Finance and
General Purposes Committee and of any other committee set up by the Council, allowances
in respect of travelling and other reasonable expenses, at such rates as may, from
time to time, be fixed by the Minister.

(8) The Council shall meet as and when necessary for the performance of its functions under
this Act and shall meet at least three times in every year.

(9) If requested in writing by any five members of the Council, the Chairman shall
within 28 days after the receipt of such request call a meeting of the Council and the request
shall specify the business to be considered at the meeting and no business not so
specified shall be transacted at that meeting.

7. Functions of the Senate

(1) Subject to section 6 of this Act and subsections (3) and (4) of this section and to
the provisions of this Act relating to the Visitor, it shall be the general function of the
Senate to organise and control the teaching by the University, the admission (where no
other enactment provides to the contrary) of students and the discipline of students; and
to promote research at the University.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1) of this section and subject as
therein mentioned, it shall in particular be the function of the Senate to make provision
for-

(a)              the establishment, organisation and control of campuses, colleges, schools,
institutes and other teaching and research units of the University and the allocation of responsibility
for different branches of learning;

(b)              the organisation and control of courses of study in the University and of the
examinations held in conjunction with those courses, including the appointment of examiners, both
internal and external;

(c)               the award of degrees, and such other qualifications as may be prescribed, in
connection with examinations held as aforesaid;

(d)              the making of recommendations to the Council with respect to the award to
any person of an honorary fellowship or degree or the title of professor emeritus;

(e)               the establishment, organisation and control of halls of residence and similar
institutions at the University;

(f)                 the supervision of the welfare of students at the University and the regulation
of their conduct;

(g)               the granting of fellowships, scholarships, prizes and similar awards in so far as
the awards are within the control of the University; and

(h)               determining what description of dress shall be academic dress for the purposes
of the University, and regulating the use of academic dress.

(3) The Senate shall not establish any new campus, college, faculty, school, department,
institute or other teaching and research units of the University or any hall of residence or
similar institution at the University, without the approval of the Council.

(4) Subject to this Act and statutes, the Senate may make regulations for the purpose
of exercising any function conferred on it either by the foregoing provisions of this section
or otherwise or for the purpose of making provisions for any matter for which provision by
regulations is authorised or required by this Act or by statute.

(5) Regulations shall provide that at least one of the persons appointed as the examiners at
each final or professional examination held in conjunction with any course of
study at the University is not a teacher at the University but is a teacher of the branch of
learning to which the course relates at some other university of high repute.

(6) Subject to a right of appeal to the Council from a decision of the Senate under this
subsection, the Senate may deprive any person of any degree, diploma or other award of
the University which has been conferred upon him if after due enquiry he is shown to
have been guilty of dishonourable or scandalous conduct in gaining admission into the
University or obtaining that award.

(7) Subject to this Act and the statutes thereto, the Senate may delegate any of its
functions to the college, schools or department boards in order to cut down the time usually
spent by the Senate on such matters and the decisions of the college, schools or department
boards shall be submitted to the Senate for confirmation, noting or ratification.

8. Functions of the Vice-Chancellor

(1) The Vice-Chancellor shall, in relation to the University, take precedence before
all other members of the University, except the Chancellor, and subject to section 4 of
this Act, except the Pro-Chancellor and any other person for the time being acting as
Chairman of the Council.

(2) Subject to sections 6, 7, and 14 of this Act, the Vice-Chancellor shall have the
general function, in addition to any other functions conferred on him by this Act or otherwise,
of directing the activities of the University and shall be the Chief Executive and
Academic Officer of the University and ex-officio chairman of the Senate.

Transfer of property, etc., to the University

9. Transfer of property and functions, etc.

(1) All property held by or on behalf of the provisional council shall, by virtue of this
subsection and without further assurance, vest in the University and be held by it for the
purposes of the U ni versity.

(2) The provisions of the Second Schedule to this Act shall have effect with respect
to matters arising from, the transfer of property by this section and with respect to the
other matters mentioned in that Schedule.

[Second Schedule.]

10. Statutes of the University

(1) Subject to this Act, each University may make statutes for any of the following
purposes, that is-

(a)        making provision with respect to the composition and constitution of any
authority of the University;

(b)      specifying and regulating the powers and duties of any authority of the University
and regulating any other matter connected with the University or any of its authorities;

(c)       regulating the admission of students where it is done by the University and
their discipline and welfare;

(d)       determining whether any particular matter is to be treated as an academic or
non-academic matter for the purposes of this Act and of any statute, regulation
or other instrument made thereunder;

(e)       making provisions for any other matter for which provisions by statute is
authorised or required by this Act.

(2) Subject to section 27 (6) of this Act, the Interpretation Act shall apply in relation
to any statute made under this section as it applies to a subsidiary instrument within the
meaning of section 27 (1)  of that Act.

[Cap. 123.]

(3) The statute contained in the Third Schedule to this Act shall be deemed to have
come into force on the commencement of this section of this Act and shall be deemed to
have been made under this section.

[Third Schedule.]

(4) The power to make statutes conferred by this section shall not be invalidated or
limited in any way by reason of the inclusion or omission of any matter in or from the
statute contained in Third Schedule to this Act or any subsequent statute.

11. Mode of exercising power to make statutes

(1) The power of the University to make statutes shall be exercised in accordance
with the provisions of this section and not otherwise.

(2) A proposed statute shall not become law unless it has been approved-

(a)       at a meeting of the Senate, by the votes of not less than two thirds of the
members present and voting; and

(b)       at a meeting of the Council, by the votes of not less than two thirds of the
members present and voting.

(3) A proposed statute may originate either in the Senate or in the Council, and may
be approved as required by subsection (2) of this section by either one of those bodies
before the other.

(4) A statute which-

(a)       makes provision for or alters the composition or constitution of the Council,
the Senate or any other authority of the University; or

(b)       provides for the establishment of a new campus or college or for the amendment
or revocation of any statute whereby a campus or college is established,shall not come into
operation unless it has been approved by the President.

(5) For the purposes of section 1 (2) of the Interpretation Act, a statute shall be
treated as being made on the date on which it is duly approved by the Council after
having been duly approved by the Senate, or on the date on which it is duly approved by
the Senate after having been duly approved by the Council, as the case may be, or, in the
case of a statute falling within subsection (4) of this section, on the date on which it is
approved by the President.

[Cap. 123.]

12. Proof of statutes

A statute may be proved in any court by the production of a copy thereto bearing or
having affixed to it a certificate purporting to be signed by the Vice-Chancellor or the
Registrar to the effect that the copy is a true copy of a statute of the U ni versity.

13. Power of the Visitor to decide meaning of statutes

(1) In the event of any doubt or dispute arising at any time as to the meaning of any
provision of a statute, the matter may be referred to the Visitor, who shall take such
advice and make such decision thereon as he shall think fit.

(2) The decision of the Visitor on any matter referred to him under this section shall
be final and binding upon the authorities, staff and students of the University, and where
any question as to the meaning of any provision of a statute has been decided by the
Visitor under this section, no question as to the meaning of that provision shall be entertained
by any court of law in Nigeria:
Provided that nothing in this subsection shall affect any power of a court of competent jurisdiction
to determine whether any provision of a statute is wholly or partly void
as being ultra vires or as being inconsistent with the Constitution of the Federal Republic
of Nigeria 1999.

[Cap. C23.]

(3) The foregoing provisions of this section shall apply in relation to any doubt or
dispute as to whether any matter is for the purposes of this Act an academic or non-
academic matter as they apply in relation to any such doubt as is mentioned in subsection (J)
of this section; and accordingly, the references in subsection (2) of this section to
any question as to the meaning of any provision of a statute shall include references to
any question as to whether any matter is for the said purposes an academic or non-academic matter.

Supervision and discipline

14. The Visitor

(1) The President shall be the Visitor of the University.

(2) The Visitor shall as often as the circumstances may require, not being less than
once every five years, conduct a visitation of the University and direct that such a visitation
be conducted by such person or persons as the Visitor may deem fit and in respect of
any of the affairs of the University.

(3) It shall be duty of the bodies and persons comprising the University-

(a)        to make available to the Visitor and to any other person conducting a visitation
in pursuance of this section, such facilities and assistance as he or they may
reasonably require for the purposes of a visitation; and

(b)       to give effect to any instruction consistent with the provisions of this Act
which may be given by the Visitor in consequence of a visitation.

15.
Removal of certain members of the Council

(1) If it appears to the Council that a member of the Council (other than the Pro-
Chancellor or the Vice-Chancellor) should be removed from office on the ground of mis-conduct
or inability to perform the functions of his office or employment, the Council
shall make a recommendation to that effect through the Minister to the President and if
the President, after making such enquiry, if any, as may be considered appropriate, approves the
recommendation, he may direct the removal of the person in question from office.

(2) It shall be the duty of the Minister to use his best endeavour to cause a copy of the
instrument embodying a direction under subsection (1)  of this section to be served as
soon as reasonably practicable on the person to whom it relates.

16.
Removal and discipline of academic, administrative and professional staff

(1) If it appears to the Council from the report of the Staff Disciplinary Committee,
established under section 17 of this Act, that there are reasons for believing that any person
employed as a member of the academic, administrative or professional staff of the
University, other than Vice-Chancellor, should be removed from his office or employment on the
ground of misconduct or of inability to perform the functions of his office or
employment, the Council shall-

(a)       give notice of those reasons to the person in question;

(b)       afford him an opportunity of making representation in person on the matter to
the Council; and

(c)        if he or any three members of the Council so request within the period of one
month beginning with the date of the notice, make arrangements-

(i)    for a joint committee of the Council and the Senate to investigate the
matter and to report on it to the Council; and

(ii)    for the person in question to be afforded an opportunity of appearing
before and being heard by the investigating committee with respect to
the matter,and if the Council, after considering the report of the investigating committee, is satisfied
that the person in question should be removed as aforesaid, the Council may so remove
him by an instrument in writing signed on the directions of the Council.

(2) The Vice-Chancellor may, in case of misconduct by a member of staff which in
the opinion of the Vice-Chancellor is prejudicial to the interests of the University, suspend such member and
any such suspension shall forthwith be reported to the Council.

(3) For good cause, any member of staff may be suspended from his duties or his appointment may be
terminated by the Council; and for the purposes of this subsection "good cause" means-

(a)        conviction for any offence which the Council considered to be such as to
render the person concerned unfit for the discharge of the functions of his office;
or

(b)       any physical or mental incapacity which the Council after obtaining medical
advice, considers to be such as to render the person concerned unfit to continue
to hold his office; or

(c)       conduct of a scandalous or other disgraceful nature which the Council considers to
be such as to render the person concerned unfit to continue to hold his office; or

(d)       conduct which the Council considers to be such as to constitute failure or
inability of the person concerned to discharge the functions of his office or to
comply with terms and conditions of his service.

(4) Any person suspended pursuant to subsection (2) or (3) of this section shall be on
half pay and the Council shall before the expiration of a period of three months after the
date of such suspension consider the case against that person and come to a decision as
to-

(a)    whether to continue such person's suspension and if so, on what terms
(including the proportion of his emoluments to be paid to him);

(b)    whether to reinstate such person, in which case the Council shall restore his
full emoluments with effect from the date of suspension;

(c)     whether to terminate the appointment of the person concerned, in which case
the person shall not be entitled to the proportion of his emoluments withheld
during the period of suspension; or

(d)    whether to take such lesser disciplinary action against such person (including
the restoration of such proportion of his emoluments as might have been withheld) as the Council
may determine,and in any case where the Council, pursuant to this section,
decides to continue a person's suspension or decides to take further disciplinary action against a person,
the Council shall before the expiration of period of three months from such decision, come to a
final determination in respect of the case concerning any such person.

(5) It shall be the duty of the person by whom an instrument of removal is signed in
pursuance of subsection (1) of this section to use his best endeavour to cause a copy of
the instrument to be served as soon as reasonably practicable on the person to whom it
relates.

(6) Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this section shall prevent the Council from
making regulations for the discipline of other categories of staff and workers of the University as may be prescribed.

17. Procedure for staff discipline

(1)  Where it is alleged that a member of staff is guilty of misconduct or should for
any other reason be disciplined, the Vice-Chancellor or the Senate shall constitute an Investigation Panel to-

(a)       determine whether or not a prima facie case has been established against the
staff; and

(b)       make a report of its findings to the Staff Disciplinary Committee established
under subsection (3) of this section.

(2) The Investigation Panel shall consist of'--

(a)               the President or chairman of the trade union to which the member of staff be-
longs; and

(b)              such members of the Senate as the Vice-Chancellor or the Senate, as the case
may be, may determine.

(3) The Vice-Chancellor shall constitute a Staff Disciplinary Committee which shall
consist of such members of the Senate as he may determine, to consider the report of the
Investigation Panel.

(4) The report of the Staff  Disciplinary Committee and its recommendations shall be
forwarded to the Council for necessary action under section 16 of this Act.

18. Removal of examiners

(1) If, on the recommendation of the Senate, it appears to the Vice-Chancellor, that a
person appointed as an examiner for any examination of the University ought to be removed
from his office or appointment, then, except in such cases as may be prescribed,
he may, after affording the examiner an opportunity of making representations in person
on the matter to the Vice-Chancellor, remove the examiner from the office or appointment
by an instrument in writing signed by the Vice-Chancellor, and subject to the provisions of
regulations made in pursuance of section 7 (5) of this Act, the Vice-Chancellor
may, on the recommendation of the Senate, appoint an appropriate person as examiner in
the place of the examiner removed in pursuance of this subsection.

(2) It shall be duty of the Vice-Chancellor, on signing an instrument of removal in
pursuance of this section, to use his best endeavour to cause a copy of the instrument to
be served as soon as is reasonably practicable on the person to whom it relates.

19. Discipline of students

(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, where it appears to the Vice-Chancellor
that any student of the University has been guilty of misconduct, the Vice-Chancellor
may, in consultation with the Senate and, without prejudice to any other disciplinary
power conferred on him by statute or regulations, direct-

(a)              that the student shall not, during such period as may be specified
in the direction, participate in such activities of the University, or make use of such
facilities of the University, as may be so specified; or

(b)              that the activities of the student shall, during such period as may be specified
in the section, be restricted in such manner as may be so specified; or

(c)               that the student be rusticated for such period as may be specified in the direction; or

(d)               that the student be expelled from the University.

(2) Where a direction is given under subsection (1)  (c) or (d) of this section in respect
of any student, that student may, within the prescribed period and in the prescribed
manner appeal from the direction to the Council; and where such an appeal is brought, the
Council shall after causing such inquiry to be made in such manner as the Council considers
just, confirm or set aside the direction or modify it in such manner as the Council thinks fit.

(3) The fact that an appeal from a direction is brought in pursuance of subsection (2)
of this section shall not affect the operation of the direction while the appeal is pending.

(4) The Vice-Chancellor may delegate his powers under this section to a disciplinary
committee consisting of such members of the University as he may nominate.

(5) Nothing in this section shall be construed as preventing the restriction or termination
of a student's activities at the University otherwise than on the ground of misconduct.

(6) It is hereby declared that a direction under subsection (1)  (a) of this section may
be combined with a direction under subsection (1)  (b) of this section.

(7) No staff or student shall resort to a law court without proof of having exhausted
the internal avenues for settling disputes or grievances or for seeking redress.

(8) Nothing in this subsection shall affect any power of a court of competent jurisdiction
to enforce the fundamental right of any aggrieved citizen as enshrined in the Constitution of
the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999.

[Cap. C23.]

Miscellaneous and general

20. Appointment of external examiners

(1) There shall be for the University such number of external examiners as may be
prescribed by the Senate.

(2) The external examiners shall be appointed for such examinations and on such
terms and conditions as the University may deem fit.

21. Exclusion of' discrimination on account of' race, religion, etc.

No person shall be required to satisfy the requirements as to any of the following
matters, that is to say, race (including ethnic grouping), sex, place of birth or family
origin, or religious or political persuasion, as a condition of becoming or continuing to be a
student at the University, the holder of any degree of the University or of any appointment
or employment at the University or a member of any body established by virtue of
this Act; and no person shall be subjected to any disadvantage or accorded any advantage
in relation to the University, by reference to any of those matters:
Provided that, nothing in this section shall be construed as preventing the University from
imposing any disability or restriction on any of the aforementioned persons,
where such person wilfully refuses or fails on grounds of religious belief to undertake any
duty generally and uniformly imposed on all such persons or any group of them, which
duty, having regard to its nature and the special circumstance pertaining thereto, is in the
opinion of the University reasonably justifiable in the national interest.

22. Restriction on disposal of land by University

Without prejudice to the provisions of the Land Use Act, the University shall not dispose of or
charge any land or an interest in any land (including any land transferred to the
University by this Act) except either with the prior written consent, either general or special, of the President:

[Cap. L5.]

Provided that such consent shall not be required in the case of any lease or tenancy
at a rack-rent for a term not exceeding 21 years or lease or tenancy to a member of the
University for residential purposes.

23. Quorum and procedure of bodies established by this Act

Except as may be otherwise provided by statute or by regulations, the quorum and
procedure of any body of persons established by this Act shall be as determined by that
body.

24. Appointment of committees, etc.

(1) Any body of persons established by this Act shall, without prejudice to the generality of the
powers of that body, have power to appoint committees, which need not consist exclusively of
members of that body, and to authorise a committee established by
it-

(a)       to exercise, on its behalf, such of its functions as it may determine;

(b)       to co-opt members,and may direct whether or not co-opted members (if any) shall be entitled to vote in that
committee.

(2) Any two or more such bodies may arrange for the holding of joint meetings of
those bodies or for the appointment of committees consisting of members of those bodies
for the purpose of considering any matter within the competence of those bodies or any
of them, and either of dealing with it or of reporting on it to those bodies or any of them.

(3) Except as may be otherwise provided by statute or by regulations, the quorum and
procedure of a committee established or meeting held in pursuance of this section shall be
such as may be determined by the body or bodies which have decided to establish the
committee or hold the meeting.

(4) Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this section shall be construed as-

(a)    enabling statutes to be made otherwise than in accordance with section 11 of
this Act; or

(b)    enabling the Senate to empower any other body to make regulations or to
award degrees or other qualifications.

(5) The Pro-Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor shall be members of every committee of which the
members are wholly or partly appointed by the Council (other than a
committee appointed to inquire into the conduct of any officer in question); and the Vice-Chancellor
shall be a member of every committee of which the members are wholly or partly appointed by the Senate.

25. Retiring age of academic staff of the University

(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Pensions Act, the compulsory retiring age of an academic
staff of a University shall be 65 years.

[Cap. P4. 1993 No. 11.]

(2) A law or rule requiring a person to retire from the public service after serving for
35 years, shall not apply to an academic staff of the University.

26. Special provisions relating to pension of professors

A person who retires as a professor having served-
[1993 No. 11.]

(a)       a minimum period of fifteen years as a professor in the University or continuously
in the service of a university in Nigeria up to the retiring age; and

(b)        who during the period of service was absent from the University only on approved national
or University assignments,shall be entitled to pension at a rate equivalent to his last annual salary and such
allowances, as the Council may, from time to time, determine as qualifying for pension and gratuity, in addition
to any other retirement benefits to which he may be entitled.

27. Miscellaneous administrative provisions

(1) The seal of the University shall be such as may be determined by the Council and
approved by the Chancellor, and the affixing of the seal shall be authenticated by any
member of the Council and by the Vice-Chancellor, Registrar or any other person
authorised by statute.

(2) Any document purporting to be a document executed under the seal of the University shall be
received in evidence and shall, unless the contrary is proved, be presumed to be so executed.

(3) Any contract or instrument which if made or executed by a person not being a
body corporate would not be required to be under seal may be made or executed on behalf of the
University by any person generally or specifically authorised to do so by the Council.

(4) The validity of any proceedings of any body established in pursuance of this Act
shall not be affected by any vacancy in the membership of the body, or by any defect in
the appointment of a member of the body or by reason that any person not entitled to do
so took part in the proceedings.

(5) Any member of any such body who has a personal interest in any mailer proposed
to be considered by that body shall forthwith disclose his interest to the body and shall
not vote on any question relating to that matter.

(6) Nothing in section 13 of the Interpretation Act (which provides for the application
in relation to subordinate legislation of certain incidental provisions) shall apply to statutes
or regulations made in pursuance of this Act, but the power conferred by this Act to
make statutes or regulations shall include power to revoke or vary any statute (including
the statute contained in Third Schedule of this Act) or any regulation by a subsequent
statute, or, as the case may be, by a subsequent regulation and statutes and regulations
may make different provisions in reaction to different circumstances.

[Cap. 123. Third Schedule.]

(7) No stamp duty or other duty shall be payable in respect of any transfer of property
to the University by virtue of section 9 or section 22 or the Second Schedule to this Act.
[Second Schedule.]

(8) Any notice or other instrument authorised to be served by virtue of this Act may,
without prejudice to any other mode of service, be served by post.

28. Interpretation

(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

"campus" means any campus which may be established by the University;

"college" means any college which may be established by the University;

"Council" means the Council established by this Act for the University;

"graduate" means a person on whom a degree, (other than an honorary degree) has
been conferred by the University;

"Minister" means the Minister responsible for higher education;

"notice" means notice in writing;

"officer" does not include the Visitor;

"prescribed" means prescribed by statutes or regulations;

"professor" means a person designated as a professor of the University in accordance
with provisions made in that behalf by statute or by regulations;

"property" includes rights, liabilities and obligations;

"provisional council" means the provisional council appointed for the University by
the President with effect from 1 January 1988;

"regulations" means regulations made by the Senate or the Council;

"Senate" means the Senate of the University established pursuant to section 2 (1) (c)
of this Act;

"statute" means a statute made by the University under section 10 of this Act and in
accordance with the provisions of section 11 of this Act, and "the statutes" means all
such statutes as are in force from time to time;

"teacher" means a person holding a full-time appointment as a member of the teaching
or research staff of the University;

"undergraduate" means a person in statu pupillari at each University other than-

(a)       a graduate; or

(b)       a person of such description as may be prescribed for the purposes of this definition;

"University" means the University of Abuja as incorporated and constituted by this
Act.

(2) It is hereby declared that where in any provisions of this Act it is laid down that
proposals are to be submitted or a recommendation is to be made by one authority to
another through one or more intermediate authorities, it shall be the duty of every such
intermediate authority to forward any proposals or recommendations received by it in
pursuance of that provisions to the appropriate authority; but any such intermediate
authority may, if it thinks fit, forward therewith its own comments thereon.

29. Short title

This Act may be cited as the University of Abuja Act.