1. Incorporation and objects of the University
(l) There is hereby established a University to be known as the University of Lagos
(in this Act referred to as "the University") to provide courses of instruction and learning
in the facuIties of arts, law, medicine, science, education, commerce and business ad-
ministration, engineering, and any other faculties which may, from time to time, be ap-
proved under this Act.
(2) The University shall be a body corporate and shall have perpetual succession and
a common seal.

-- 2 of 34 --

(3) The objects of the university shall be-
(a) 	to encourage the advancement of learning and to hold out to all persons without
distinction of race, creed, sex or political conviction the opportunity of acquiring a
higher education;
(b) 	to provide courses of instruction and other facilities for the pursuit of learning
in all its branches, and to make those facilities available on proper terms to
such persons as are equipped to benefit from them;
(c) 	to encourage, promote and conduct research in all fields of learning and human
endeavour; and
(d) 	to undertake any other activities appropriate for a university of the highest
standard.
2. Establishment and objects of Colleges of Medicine within the University
(1) There shall be established within the University as an integral part thereof, a
College of Medicine of the University of Lagos which shall be a body corporate with
perpetual succession and a common seal.
(2) The objects of the College of Medicine shall be-
(a) 	to provide courses of instruction leading to degrees, diplomas, certificates and
other university distinctions in medical studies and such related studies as may
be prescribed;
(b) 	to provide special training courses, whether leading to university distinctions
or not, for such persons as may be prescribed, taking into account at all times
the requirements of the Federal Ministry of Health;
(c) 	to conduct research, with particular reference to research in the field of medical science;
(d) 	to arrange conferences, seminars, study groups and like activities; and
(e) 	to perform such other functions as may be conferred on it by statute.
3. Constitution and Principal Officers of the University
(1) The University shall consist of-
(a) 	a Chancellor;
(b) 	a Pro-Chancellor and a Council;
(c) 	a Vice-Chancellor and a Senate;
(d) 	a body to be called Congregation;
(e) 	a body to be called Convocation;
(f) 	the colleges of the University and their respective courts of governors and academic boards;
(g) 	the faculties, schools, institutes and other teaching units of the University;
(h) 	the persons holding the offices constituted by the First Schedule to this Act
other than those mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (c) of this subsection;
(i) 	all graduates and undergraduates; and

-- 3 of 34 --

(j) 	all other persons who are members of the University in accordance with provision made
by statute in that behalf.
(2) The First Schedule to this Act shall have effect with respect to the principal officers of the
University there mentioned.
[First Schedule.]
(3) Subject to section 5 of this Act, provision shall be made by statute with respect to
the constitution of the following bodies, namely, the Council, the Senate, Congregation,
Convocation, and the courts of governors and academic boards of the colleges.
4. Powers of the University, and their exercise
(1) For carrying out its objects as specified in section 1 of this Act, the University
shall have power-
(a) 	to establish such colleges, faculties, institutes, schools, extra-mural departments and
other teaching units within the University as may from time to time
seem necessary or desirable;
(b) 	to institute professorships, readerships, lectureships and other posts and offices
and to make appointments thereto;
(c) 	to institute and award fellowships, scholarships, exhibitions, bursaries, medals,
prizes and other titles, distinctions, awards and forms of assistance;
(d) 	to provide for the residence, discipline and welfare of members of the University;
(e) 	to hold examinations and grant degrees, diplomas, certificates and other distinctions to
persons who have pursued a course of study approved by the University and have
satisfied such other requirements as the University may lay down;
(f) 	to grant honorary degrees, fellowships or academic titles;
(g) 	to demand and receive from any student or any other person attending the University for
the purpose of instruction, such fees as the University may from time to time determine;
(h) 	subject to section 23 of this Act, to acquire, hold, grant, charge or otherwise
deal with or dispose of movable and immovable property wherever situate;
(i) 	to accept gifts, legacies and donations, but without obligation to accept the
same for a particular purpose unless it approves the terms and conditions attaching
thereto;
(j) 	to enter into contracts, establish trusts, act as trustee, solely or jointly with any
other person, and employ and act through agents;
(k) 	to erect, provide, equip and maintain libraries, laboratories, lecture halls, halls
of residence, refectories, sports grounds, playing fields and other buildings or
things (whether in Nigeria or elsewhere) necessary or suitable or convenient
for any of the objects of the University;
(l) 	to hold public lectures and to undertake publishing and bookselling;
(m) 	subject to any limitations or conditions imposed by statute, to invest any moneys
appertaining to the University by way of endowment, whether for general

-- 4 of 34 --

or special purposes, and such other moneys as may not be immediately required for current
expenditure, in any investments or securities or in the purchase or improvement of land,
with power from time to time to vary any such investments, and to deposit any moneys for
the time being uninvested with any bank on deposit or current account;
(n) 	to borrow, whether at interest or not and if need be upon the security of any or
all of the property, movable or immovable, of the University, such moneys as
the Council may from time to time in its discretion find it necessary or expedient to borrow;
(o) 	to make gifts for any charitable purpose;
(p) 	to do anything which it is authorised or required by this Act or by statute to do;
(q) 	to do all such acts or things, whether or not incidental to the foregoing powers,
as may advance the objects of the University.
(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act and of the statutes, and without prejudice to
section 9 (2) of this Act, the powers conferred on the University by subsection (1) of this
section shall be exercisable on behalf of the University by the Councilor by the senate or
in any other manner which may be authorised by statute.
(3) The power of the University to establish further colleges within the University
shall be exercisable by statute and not otherwise.
5. Composition of the Council
The Council of the University shall consist of-
[1993 No. 11. 1996 No. 25.]
(a) 	the Pro-Chancellor;
(b) 	the Vice-Chancellor;
(c) 	the Deputy Vice-Chancellors;
(d) 	one person from the Ministry responsible for education;
(e) 	nine persons representing a variety of interests and broadly representative of
the whole Federation to be appointed by the President;
(f) 	four persons appointed by the Senate from among its members;
(g) 	two persons appointed by the Congregation from among its members;
(h) 	one person appointed by Convocation from among its members.
6. Functions of the Chancellor and Pro-Chancellor
(1) The Chancellor shall, in relation to the University, take precedence before all
other members of the University, and when he is present shall preside at all meetings of
Congregation held for conferring degrees and at all meetings of Convocation.
(2) The Pro-Chancellor shall, in relation to the University, take precedence before all
other members of the University except the Chancellor and except the Vice-Chancellor
when acting as chairman of Congregation or Convocation and except the Deputy Vice-
Chancellor when so acting; and the Pro-Chancellor shall, when he is present, be the
chairman at all meetings of the Council.

-- 5 of 34 --

7. Functions of the Council and its Finance and General Purposes Committee
(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act relating to the Visitor, the Council shall be
the governing body of the University and shall be charged with the general control and
superintendence of the policy, finances and property of the University, including its public
relations.
(2) There shall be a committee of the Council, to be known as the Finance and General Purposes
Committee, which shall, subject to the directions of the Council, exercise control over the property and
expenditure of the University, other than that of the colleges, and perform such other functions of the
Council as the Council may from time to time delegate to it.
(3) Provision shall be made by statute with respect to the constitution of the Finance
and General Purposes Committee.
(4) The Council shall ensure that proper accounts of the University and the colleges
are kept and that the accounts of the University and of each of the colleges are audited
annually by auditors appointed by the Council from the list and in accordance with
guidelines supplied by the Auditor-General for the Federation; and that an annual report
is published by the University together with certified copies of the said accounts as
audited.
(5) Subject to this Act and the statutes, the Council and the Finance and General Purposes
Committee may each make rules for the purposes of exercising any of their respective functions or of
regulating their own procedure.
(6) Rules made under subsection (5) of this section by the Finance and General Purposes Committee
shall not come into force unless approved by the Council; and in so far
as any rules so made by that Committee conflict with any directions given by the Council
(whether before or after the coming into force of the rules in question), the directions of
the Council shall prevail.
(7) There shall be paid to the members of the Council, of the Finance and General
Purposes Committee and of any other committee set up by the council respectively
allowances in respect of travelling and other reasonable expenses, at such rates as may
from time to time be fixed by the Council.
(8) The Council shall meet as and when necessary for the performance of its functions under this
Act, and shall meet at least three times in every year.
(9) Any three members of the Council may by notice in writing signed by them re-
quire the Pro-Chancellor to convene a special meeting of the Council.
8. Functions of the Senate
(l) Subject to section 7 of this Act and subsections (3) and (4) of this section, and to
the provisions of this Act relating to the Visitor, it shall be the general function of the
Senate to organise and control the teaching of the University and the admission and discipline of
students, and to promote research at the University.

-- 6 of 34 --

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1) of this section and subject as
therein mentioned, it shall in particular be the function of the senate to make provision
for-
(a) 	the establishment, organisation and control of faculties, schools, institutes, and
other teaching units of the University, and the allocation of responsibility for
different branches of learning;
(b) 	the organisation and control of courses of study at the University and of the
examinations held in conjunction with those courses, including the appointment of
examiner, both internal and external;
(c) 	the award of degrees, and such other qualifications as may be prescribed, in
connection with examinations held as aforesaid;
(d) 	the making of recommendations to the Council with respect to the award to
any person of an honorary fellowship or honorary degree or the title of professor
emeritus;
(e) 	the selection of persons for admission as students of the University;
(f) 	the establishment, organisation and control of halls of residence and similar
institutions at the University;
(g) 	the supervision of the welfare of students at the University and the regulations
of their conduct;
(h) 	the granting of fellowships, scholarships, prizes and similar awards, in so far as
the awards are within the control of the University; and
(i) 	determining what descriptions of dress shall be academic dress for the purposes of the
University, and regulating the use of academic dress.
(3) The Senate shall not establish any new faculty, school, institute or other teaching
units of the University, or any hall of residence or similar institution at the University,
without the approval of the Council.
(4) Subject to this Act and the statutes, the Senate may make regulations for the purpose of
exercising any function conferred on it either by the foregoing provisions of this
section or otherwise or for the purpose of making provision for any matter for which provision by
regulations is authorised or required by this Act or by statute.
(5) Regulations shall provide that at least one of the persons appointed as the examiners at each
final or professional examination held in conjunction with any course of
study of the University is not a teacher at the University but is a teacher of the branch of
learning to which the course relates at some other university of high repute.
(6) Subject to a right of appeal to the Council from a decision of the Senate under this
subsection, and to the Chancellor from a decision of the council on such an appeal, the
Senate may deprive any person of any degree, diploma or other award of the University
which has been conferred upon him if after the due enquiry he is shown to have been
guilty of dishonourable or scandalous conduct in obtaining that award.
9. Functions of the Vice-Chancellor
(1) The Vice-Chancellor shall, in relation to the University, take precedence before
all other members of the University except the Chancellor and, subject to section 6 of this

-- 7 of 34 --

Act; except the Pro-Chancellor and any other person for the time being acting as chair-
man of the Council.
(2) Subject to sections 7 and 8 of this Act and the provisions of this Act relating to
the visitor, the Vice-Chancellor shall to the exclusion of any other person or authority
have the general function, in addition to any other functions conferred on him by this Act
or otherwise, of directing the activities of the University, and shall be the Chief Executive
and Academic Officer of the University and ex-officio Chairman of the Senate.
[1972 No. 12.]
10. Status, constitution and powers of colleges
(1) Any college established by statute shall, like the College of Medicine, be a body
corporate; and provision shall be made by statute with respect to the constitution of any
college so established.
[1975 No. 27.]
(2) The College of Medicine, and any college established by statute, shall have power
to own and, subject to subsection (3) of this section, to manage its own property.
(3) The College of Medicine, and any other college established by the University-
(a) 	shall be subject to the control of the Senate as regards academic matters; and
(b) 	shall be subject to the overall control of the Council as regards non-academic
matters.
(4) The Second Schedule to this Act shall have effect with respect to the constitution
and powers of the College of Medicine.
[Second Schedule.]
Transfer of property, etc., to the University and to the College of Medicine
11. Transfer of property, functions, etc.
(1) On the appointed day-
(a) 	all property held immediately before that day by or on behalf of the provisional
council shall, by virtue of this subsection and without further assurance, vest in
the University and be held by it for the purposes of the University; and
(b) 	all property held immediately before that day by or on behalf of the medical
school council shall, by virtue of this subsection and without further assurance,
vest in the College of Medicine and be held by it for the purposes of the College of
Medicine.
(2) The provisions of the Third Schedule to this Act shall have effect with respect to,
and to matters arising from, the transfer of property by this section and with respect to the
other matters mentioned in that Schedule.
[Third Schedule.]

-- 8 of 34 --

Statutes of the University
12. Power of University to make statutes
(1) Subject to this Act, the University may make statutes for any of the following
purposes, that is to say-
(a) 	making provision with respect to the composition and constitution of any
authority of the University;
(b) 	specifying and regulating the powers and duties of any authority of the University,
and regulating any other matter connected with the University or any of
its authorities;
(c) 	regulating the admission of students and their discipline and welfare;
(d) 	determining whether any particular matter is to be treated as an academic or a
non-academic matter for the purposes of this Act and of any statute, regulation
or other instrument made thereunder;
(e) 	making provision for any other matter for which provision by statute is
authorised or required by this Act.
(2) Subject to section 28 (6) of this Act, the Interpretation Act shall apply in relation
to any statute made under this section as it applies to a subsidiary instrument within the
meaning of section 27 (1) of that Act.
[Cap. 123.]
(3) The Statute contained in the Fourth Schedule to this Act shall come into force on
the appointed day and shall be deemed to have been made under this section.
[Fourth Schedule.]
(4) The power to make statute conferred by this section shall not be prejudiced or
limited in any way by reason of the inclusion or omission of any matter in or from the
Statute contained in the Fourth Schedule to this Act or any subsequent statute.
13. Mode of exercising power to make statutes
(1) The power of the University to make statutes shall be exercised in accordance
with the provisions of this section and not otherwise.
(2) A proposed statute shall not become law unless it has been approved-
(a) 	at a meeting of the senate, by the votes of not less than two-thirds of the
members present and voting; and
(b) 	at a meeting of the council, by the votes of not less than two-thirds of the
members present and voting.
(3) A proposed statute which provides for the establishment of a new college or for
the amendment or revocation of any statute whereby a college is established may originate
only in the senate, and must be approved as required by subsection (2) of this section
by the senate before being so approved by the Council.
(4) Subject to subsection (3) of this section, a proposed statute may originate either in
the Senate or in the Council, and may be approved as required by subsection (2) of this
section by either one of those bodies before the other.

-- 9 of 34 --

(5) A statute which-
(a) 	makes provision for or alters the composition or constitution of the Council,
the Senate or any other authority of the University; or
(b) 	provides for the establishment of a new college or for the amendment or revocation
of any statute whereby a college is established, shall not come into operation unless
it has been approved by the President.
(6) For the purposes of section 2 (2) of the Interpretation Act a statute shall be treated
as being made on the date on which it is duly approved by the Council after having been
duly approved by the Senate, or on the date on which it is duly approved by the Senate
after having been duly approved by the Council, as the case may be, or, in the case of a
statute falling within subsection (5) of this section, on the date on which it is approved by
the President.
[Cap. 123.]
14. Proof of statutes
A statute may be proved in any court by the production of a copy thereof bearing or
having affixed to it a certificate purporting to be signed by the Vice-Chancellor, the Deputy
Vice-Chancellor or the Registrar, to the effect that the copy is a true copy of a statute
of the University.
15. Power of Visitor to decide meaning of statute
(1) In the event of any doubt or dispute arising at any time as to the meaning of any
provision of a statute, the matter may be referred to the visitor, who shall take such ad-
vice and make such decision thereon as he shall think fit.
(2) The decision of the Visitor on any matter referred to him under this section shall
be binding upon the authorities, staff and students of the University, and where any question
as to the meaning of any provision of a statute has been decided by the visitor under
this section, no question as to the meaning of that provision shall be entertained by any
court of law in Nigeria:
Provided that nothing in this subsection shall affect any power of a court of competent
jurisdiction to determine whether any provision of a statute is wholly or partly void
as being ultra vires or as being inconsistent with the Constitution of the Federal Republic
of Nigeria, 1999.
[Cap. C23.]
(3) Subsections (1) and (2) of this section shall apply in relation to any doubt or dispute as
to whether any matter is for the purposes of this Act an academic or a non- academic matter as
they apply in relation to any such doubt or dispute as is mentioned in subsection (1) of this
section; and accordingly the references in subsection (2) of this section to any question as to
the meaning of any provision of a statute shall include references to any question as to
whether any matter is for the said purposes an academic or a non-academic matter.

-- 10 of 34 --

Supervision and discipline
16. The Visitor
(1) The President shall be the Visitor of the University.
[1972 No. 12.]
(2) The Visitor shall as often as circumstances may require, not being less than once
every five years, conduct a visitation of the University or direct that such a visitation be
conducted by such persons and in respect of any of the affairs of the University as the
Visitor may direct.
(3) It shall be the duty of the bodies and persons comprised in the University-
(a) 	to make available to the visitor, and to any other persons conducting a visitation in
pursuance of this section, such facilities and assistance as he or they
reasonably require for the purposes of a visitation; and
(b) 	to give effect to any instructions consistent with the provisions of this Act
which may be given by the Visitor in consequence of a visitation.
17. Removal of Pro-Chancellor, Chairman of court of governors and certain members of
council of court of governors
(1) If it appears to the Council that a member of the Council (other than an ex officio
member) should be removed from office on the grounds of misconduct or of inability to
perform the function of his office, the Council shall make a recommendation to that effect through the
Chancellor to the visitor, and if the Visitor, after making such enquiries (if any) as he considers
appropriate, approves the recommendation he may, by an instrument in writing signed by him, remove
the person in question from office.
[1972 No. 12. 1976 No. 30.]
(2) If it appears to the court of governors of a college that the chairman or a member
of that court (other than an ex-officio member) should be removed from office on the
grounds of misconduct or of inability to perform the function of his office, the court shall
make a recommendation to that effect through the council and the Chancellor to the
Visitor; and if the Visitor, after making such enquiries (if any) as he considers appropriate, approves the
recommendation he may, by an instrument in writing signed by him, remove the person in question
from office.
(3) It shall be the duty of the Visitor, on signing an instrument of removal in pursuance of this
section, to use his best endeavours to cause a copy of the instrument to be served as soon as reasonably
practicable on the person to whom it relates.
18. Removal of academic and administrative officers and staff
(1) If it appears to the Council that there are reasons for believing that the Deputy
Vice-Chancellor, the Provost of a college or any other person employed as a member of
the academic or administrative staff of the University or a college should be removed
from his office or employment on the ground of misconduct or of inability to perform the
functions of his office or employment, the Council shall-
[1972 No. 12.]
(a) 	give notice of those reasons to the person in question;

-- 11 of 34 --

(b) 	make arrangements-
(i) 	for a joint committee of the Council and the Senate to investigate the
matter, where it relates to the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, the Provost of a
college, or the Registrar, and to report on it to the Council; or
(ii) 	for a committee of the Senate to investigate the matter, where it relates
to any other member of the staff of the University, and to report on it to
the Senate and to the Council; and
(c) 	make arrangements for the person in question or his representative to be afforded an
opportunity of appearing before and being heard by the investigating committee with respect
to the matter, and if the Council, after considering the report of the investigating committee,
is satisfied that the person in question should be removed as aforesaid, the Council may so
remove him by an instrument in writing signed on the directions of the Council.
(2) It shall be the duty of the person by whom an instrument of removal is signed in
pursuance of subsection (1) of this section to use his best endeavours to cause a copy of
the instrument to be served as soon as reasonably practicable on the person to whom it
relates.
(3) If it appears-
(a) 	in the case of the Vice-Chancellor, to the Council;
(b) 	in the case of the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, the Provost of a college or any
other person employed as mentioned in subsection (l) of this section, to the
Vice-Chancellor, that the person in question should be removed from his office or
employment on either of the grounds mentioned in the said subsection (1), the Councilor, as
the case may be, the Vice-Chancellor, may by a notice signed on the directions of the
Councilor by the Vice- Chancellor, prohibit him from exercising the functions of his office
or employment with a view to his removal; and on exercising his powers under this
subsection the Vice- Chancellor shall forthwith refer the case to the council, and the Council
shall give such directions in the matter as it thinks proper.
(4) Nothing in subsection (3) of this section shall be construed as affecting a person's
entitlement to the emoluments of his office or employment during the period of any prohibition
imposed in pursuance of that subsection.
(5) Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this section shall apply to employments of
such descriptions as may be designated for the purposes of this subsection by statute or
by regulations.
19. Removal of examiners
(1) If it appears to the Vice-Chancellor that a person appointed as an examiner for
any examination of the University ought to be removed from his office or appointment,
then, except in such cases as may be prescribed, he may, after affording to the examiner
an opportunity of making representations in person on the matter to the Vice-Chancellor,
remove the examiner from the appointment by an instrument in writing signed by the
Vice-Chancellor, and, subject to the provisions of regulations made in pursuance of

-- 12 of 34 --

section 8 (5) of this Act, the Vice-Chancellor may appoint an appropriate person as examiner in the
place of the examiner removed in pursuance of this subsection.
(2) It shall be the duty of the Vice-Chancellor, on signing an instrument of removal in
pursuance of this section, to use his best endeavours to cause a copy of the instrument to
be served as soon as reasonably practicable on the person to whom it relates.
20. Discipline of students
(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, where it appears to the Vice-Chancellor
that any student of the University has been guilty of misconduct, the Vice-Chancellor
may, without prejudice to any other disciplinary powers conferred on him by statute or
regulations direct-
(a) 	that the student shall not, during such period as may be specified in the direction, participate
in such activities of the University, or make use of such facilities of the University, as may
be so specified; or
(b) 	that the activities of the student shall, during such period as may be specified
in the direction, be restricted in such manner as may be so specified; or
(c) 	that the student be rusticated for such period as may be specified in the direction; or
(d) 	that the student be expelled from the University.
(2) Where a direction is given under subsection (1) (c) or (d) of this section in respect
of any student, the student may, within the prescribed period and in the prescribed manner, appeal from
the direction to the Council; and where such an appeal is brought, the Council shall, after causing such
inquiry to be made in the matter as the Council considers just, either confirm or set aside the direction
or modify it in such manner as the Council thinks fit.
(3) The fact that an appeal from a direction is brought in pursuance of the last fore-
going subsection shall not affect the operation of the direction while the appeal is pending.
(4) The Vice-Chancellor may delegate his powers under this section to a disciplinary
board consisting of such members of the University as he may nominate.
(5) As regards students of a college, the Vice-Chancellor's powers under this section
shall be exercisable by the Provost of the college (who may delegate such powers to a
disciplinary board), subject, in the case of rustication or expulsion, to an appeal to the
Vice-Chancellor and thence to the Council.
(6) The Vice-Chancellor may empower the master of a hall of residence to inflict
punishment (short of rustication or expulsion) for breach of the hall rules.
(7) Nothing in this section shall be construed as preventing the restriction or termination of a
student's activities at the University otherwise than on the ground of misconduct.
(8) It is hereby declared that a direction under subsection (1) (a) of this section may
be combined with a direction under subsection (1) (b) of this section.

-- 13 of 34 --

Miscellaneous and general
21. Exclusion of discrimination on account of race, religion, etc.
No person shall be required to satisfy requirements as to any of the following matters,
that is to say, race (including ethnic grouping), sex, place of birth or of family origin, or
religious or political persuasion, as a condition of becoming or continuing to be a student
at the University, the holder of any degree of the University or of any appointment or
employment at the University, or a member of any body established by virtue of this Act;
and no person shall be subjected to any disadvantage or accorded any advantage, in relation to the
University, by reference to any of those matters:
Provided that nothing in this section shall be construed as preventing the University from
imposing any disability or restriction on any of the aforementioned persons,
where such person wilfully refuses or fails on grounds of religious belief to undertake any
duty generally and uniformly imposed on all such persons or any group of them which
duty, having regard to its nature and the special circumstances pertaining thereto, is in the
opinion of the University reasonably justifiable in the national interest.
22. Compulsory acquisition of land
For the purposes of the Land Use Act (which provided for the compulsory acquisition
of land for public purposes) the purposes of the University shall be public purposes of the
Federation; and where an estate or interest in land is acquired by the President in pursuance of this
section, the President may, by a certificate under hand and seal of the Registrar of Deeds, transfer it to
the University or to any college of the University.
[Cap. L5.]
23. Restriction on disposals of land by University or colleges
Neither the University nor any college of the University shall dispose of or charge any
land or an interest in any land (including any land transferred to the University or a college by this Act)
except with the prior written consent, either general or special, of the President:
Provided that such consent shall not be required in the case of any lease or tenancy
at a rack-rent for a term not exceeding 21 years or any lease or tenancy to a member of
the University for residential purposes.
24. Quorum and procedure of bodies established by this Act
Except as may be otherwise provided by statute or by regulations, the quorum and
procedure of any body of persons established by this Act shall be such as may be deter-
mined by that body.
25. Appointment of committees, etc.
(l) Any body of persons established by this Act shall, without prejudice to the generality of the
powers of that body, have power to appoint committees, which need not consist exclusively of
members of that body, and to authorise a committee established by
it-
(a) 	to exercise, on its behalf, such of its functions as it may determine; and

-- 14 of 34 --

(b) 	to co-opt members,
and may direct whether or not co-opted members (if any) shall be entitled to vote in that
committee.
(2) Any two or more such bodies may arrange for the holding of joint meetings of
those bodies, or for the appointment of committees consisting of members of those bodies, for the
purpose of considering any matter within the competence of those bodies or
any of them, and either of dealing with it or of reporting on it to those bodies or any of
them.
(3) Except as may be otherwise provided by statute or by regulations, the quorum and
procedure of a committee established or meeting held in pursuance of this section shall be
such as may be determined by the body or bodies which have decided to establish the
committee or hold the meeting.
(4) Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this section shall be construed as-
(a) 	enabling statutes to be made otherwise than in accordance with section 12 of
this Act; or
(b) 	enabling the Senate to empower any other body to make regulations or to
award degrees or other qualifications.
(5) The Pro-Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor shall be members of every committee of which the
members are wholly or partly appointed by the Council (other than a committee appointed to inquire
into the conduct of the officer in question); and the Vice- Chancellor shall be a member of every
committee of which the members are wholly or partly appointed by the Senate.
26. Retiring age of academic staff of the University
(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Pensions Act, the compulsory re-
tiring age of an academic staff of a University shall be 65 years.
[Cap. P4. 1993 No. 1 1.]
(2) A law or rule requiring a person to retire from the public service after serving for
35 years shall not apply to an academic staff of the University.
27. Special provisions relating to pension of professors
A person who retires as a professor having served-
[1993 No. 11.]
(a) 	a minimum period of fifteen years as a professor in the University or continuously in the
service of a university in Nigeria up to the retiring age; and
(b) 	who during the period of service was absent from the University only on approved
national or University assignments,
shall be entitled to pension at a rate equivalent to his last annual salary and such
allowances, as the Council may, from time to time, determine as qualifying for pension
and gratuity, in addition to any other retirement benefits to which he may be entitled.

-- 15 of 34 --

28. Miscellaneous administrative provisions
(1) The seal of the University and of each college shall be such as may be determined
by the Council and approved by the Chancellor; and the affixing of the seals shall be
authenticated, in the case of the seal of the University, by any member of the Council and
by the Vice-Chancellor, Registrar or any other person authorised by statute or, in the case
of the seal of a college, by any member of the court of governors of the college and by
the Provost or Secretary of the college or any other person authorised by statute.
(2) Any document purporting to be a document executed under the seal of the University or of a
college authenticated as aforesaid shall be received in evidence and shall, unless the contrary is proved,
be deemed to be so executed.
(3) Any contract or instrument which, if made, or executed by a person not being a
body corporate, would not be required to be under seal may be made or executed on be-
half of the University or a college by any person generally or specially authorised to do
so by the Councilor the court of governors of the college, as the case may be.
(4) The validity of any proceedings of any body established in pursuance of this Act
shall not be affected by any vacancy in the membership of the body, or by any defect in
the appointment of a member of the body, or by reason that any person not entitled to do
so took part in the proceedings.
(5) Any member of any such body who has a personal interest in any matter proposed
to be considered by that body shall forthwith disclose his interest to the body and shall
not vote on any question relating to that matter.
(6) Nothing in section 12 of the Interpretation Act (which provides for the application, in relation to
subordinate legislation, of certain incidental provisions) shall apply to
statutes or regulations made in pursuance of this Act; but the power conferred by this Act
to make statutes or regulations shall include power to revoke or vary any statute (including the Statute
contained in the Fourth Schedule to this Act) or any regulation by a subsequent statute or, as the case
may be, by a subsequent regulation, and statutes and regulations may make different provision in
relation to different circumstances.
[Cap. 123. Fourth Schedule.]
(7) No stamp or other duty shall be payable in respect of any transfer of property to
the University by virtue of sections 11 and 23 of this Act or the Third Schedule to this
Act or of any transfer of property from the University to a college or from a college to the
University.
[Third Schedule.]
(8) Any notice or other instrument authorised or required to be served by virtue of
this Act may, without prejudice to any other mode of service, be served by post.
29. Interpretation
(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, the following expressions have
the meanings hereby assigned to them respectively, that is to say-
"appointed day" means the day on which this Act comes into force;

-- 16 of 34 --

"college" means the College of Medicine, or any other college which may be established by the
University;
"College of Medicine" means the College of Medicine of the University of Lagos
established by this Act;
"Council" means the Council established by this Act for the University;
"graduate" means a person on whom a degree (other than an honorary degree) has
been conferred by the University;
"notice" means notice in writing;
"officer" does not include the Visitor;
"prescribed" means prescribed by regulations;
"professor" means a person designated as a professor of the University in accordance
with provision in that behalf made by statute or by regulations;
"property" includes rights, liabilities and obligations;
"provisional council" means the provisional council established under this Act;
"regulations" means regulations made by the Senate;
"Senate" means the Senate established by this Act for the University;
"statute" means a statute made by the University under section 12 of this Act in accordance with
the provisions of section 13 of this Act, and "the statutes" means all such statutes as are in force from
time to time;
"student" means an undergraduate and any person of such description as may be pre-
scribed for the purposes of this definition;
"teacher" means a person holding a full time appointment as a member of the teaching or research
staff of the University, whether within a college or otherwise;
"undergraduate" means a person in statu pupillari at the University other than-
(a) 	a graduate; and
(b) 	a person of such description as may be prescribed for the purposes of this definition;
"University" means the University of Lagos as incorporated and reconstituted by this
Act.
(2) No office or appointment in any capacity under this Act shall be or be construed
to be an office of emolument under the state.
(3) It is hereby declared that where in any provision of this Act, it is laid down that
proposals are to be submitted or a recommendation is to be made by one authority to

-- 17 of 34 --

another through one or more intermediate authorities, it shall be the duty of every such
intermediate authority to forward any proposals or recommendations received by it in
pursuance of that provision to the appropriate authority; but any such intermediate
authority may, if it thinks fit, forward therewith its own comments thereon.
30. Short title
This Act may be cited as the University of Lagos Act.