1. 	Imposition, etc., of Value Added Tax
There is hereby imposed and charged a tax to be known as the Value Added Tax (in
this Act referred to as "the tax") which shall be administered in accordance with the pro-
visions of this Act.
2. 	Taxable goods and services
The tax shall be charged and payable on the supply of all goods and services (in this
Act referred to as "taxable goods and services") other than those goods and services
listed in the First Schedule to this Act.
[I 996 No. 31.]
3. 	Goods and services exempt
There shall be exempt from the tax the goods and services listed in the First Schedule
to this Act.
[1996 No. 31. First Schedule.]
4. 	Rate of tax
The tax shall be computed at the rate of 5 percent on the value of all goods and ser-
vices as determined under sections 5 and 6 of this Act, except that goods and services
listed under Part III of the First Schedule to this Act shall be taxed at zero rate.
[1996 No. 31,2007 No. 53, s. 3.]
5. 	Value of taxable goods and services
(l) For the purpose of this Act, the value of taxable goods and services shall be determined as
follows, that is-
(a) 	if the supply is for a money consideration, its value shall be deemed to be an
amount which with the addition of the tax chargeable is equal to the consideration;
(b) 	if the supply is for a consideration not consisting of money, the value of the
supply shall be deemed to be its market value.
(2) Where the supply of taxable goods or services is not the only matter to which a
consideration in money relates, the supply shall be deemed to be such part of the consideration as is
properly attributed to it.

-- 3 of 39 --

(3) For the purpose of this Act, the open market value of supply of taxable goods or
services shall be taken to be the amount that would fall to be taken as its value under sub-
section (1) (b) of this section if the supply were for such consideration in money as could
be payable by a person in a transaction at arm's length.
6. 	Value of imported goods
The value of imported taxable goods for the purposes of this Act shall be the amount
which is equal to the price of the goods so imported and shall include-
(a) 	all taxes, duties and other charges levied either outside or by reason of importation into
Nigeria, other than the tax imposed by this Act;
(b) 	all costs by way of commission, parking, transport and insurance up to the port
or place of importation.
PART II
Administration
7. Administration of the tax
(1) The tax shall be administered and managed by the Federal Board of lnland Revenue (in this
Act referred to as "the Board").
(2) The Board may do such things as it may deem necessary and expedient for the
assessment and collection of the tax and shall account for all amounts so collected in accordance with
the provisions of this Act.
8. 	Registration
(1) A taxable person shall, within six months of the commencement of the Act or
within six months of the commencement of business, whichever is earlier, register with
the Board for the purpose of the tax.
[1996 No. 30.]
(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of section 32 of this Act, a taxable person
who fails or refuses to register with the Board within the time specified in subsection (1)
of this section shall be liable to pay as penalty an amount of-
(a) 	N10, 000 for the first month in which the failure occurs; and
(b) 	N5, 000 for each subsequent month in which the failure continues.
[1996 No. 30.]
9. 	Registration by Government Ministries, etc., as agents of the Board
(1) Every Government Ministry, statutory body and other agency of Government
shall register as agents of the Board for the purpose of collection of tax under this Act
[1996 No. 31.]
(2) Every contractor transacting business with a Government Ministry, statutory
body and other agency of the Federal, State or local government shall produce evidence
of registration with the Board as a condition for obtaining a contract.
[1996 No. 31.]

-- 4 of 39 --

10. Registration by non-resident companies
(1) For the purpose of this Act, a non-resident company that carries on business in Nigeria shall
register for the tax with the Board, using the address of the person with whom it
has a subsisting contract, as its address for purposes of correspondence relating to the tax.
LI996 No. 31.]
(2) A non-resident company shall include the tax in its invoice and the person to
whom the goods or services are supplied in Nigeria shall remit the tax in the currency of
the transaction.
[1996 No. 31.]
11. Records and accounts
A person who is registered under section 8 of this Act (in this Act referred to as "a
registered person") shall keep such records and books of all transactions, operations, im-
ports and other activities relating to taxable goods and services as are sufficient to deter-
mine the correct amount of tax due under this Act.
PART III
Returns, remittances, recovery and refund of tax
12. Payment of tax by taxable person
(1) A taxable person shall pay to the supplier the tax on taxable goods and services
purchased by or supplied to the person.
[2007 No. 53, s. 4.]
(2) The tax paid by a taxable person under subsection (1) of this section shall be
known as input tax.
13. Remission of tax collected by Government Ministries, etc.
(1) Every Ministry, statutory body or other agency of Government shall, at the time
of making payment to a contractor, remit the tax charged on the contract to the nearest
local Value Added Tax office.
[1996 No. 31.]
(2) The Service may, by notice, determine and direct the companies operating in the
oil and gas sector which shall deduct V A T at source and remit same to the Service.
[2007 No. 53, s. 5 (a).]
(3) The remission shall be accompanied with a schedule showing the name and ad-
dress of the contractor, invoice number, gross amount of invoice, amount of tax and
month of return.
[1996 No. 31. Subsection (3), previously subsection (2), renumbered by 2007 No. 53, s. 5 (b).]
13A. Tax invoice
(1) A taxable person who makes a taxable supply shall, in respect of that supply, furnish the
purchaser with a tax invoice containing, inter alia, the following-
(a) 	tax payers identification number;
(b) 	name and address;
(c) 	VAT registration number;
(d) 	the date of supply;
(e) 	name of purchaser or client;

-- 5 of 39 --

(f) 	gross amount of transaction; and
(g) 	tax charged and rate supplied.
(2) A tax invoice shall be issued on supply whether or not payment is made at the
time of supply.
[2007 No. 53, s. 6.]
14. Collection of tax by taxable person
(1) A taxable person shall on supplying taxable goods or services to his accredited
distributor, agent, client or consumer, as the case may be, collect the tax on those goods
or services at the rate specified in section 2 of this Act
(2) The tax collected by a taxable person under subsection (1) of this section shall be
known as output tax.
15. Taxable person to render returns
(1) A taxable person shall render to the Board, on or before the 21 st day of the month
following that in which the purchase or supply was made, a return of all taxable goods
and services purchased or supplied by him during the preceding month in such manner as
the Board may, from time to time, determine.
[1996 No. 31, 2007 No. 53, s. 7 (a).]
(2) A person who imports taxable goods into Nigeria shall render to the Board re-
turns on all the taxable goods imported by him into Nigeria.
(3) In this regard, any payment made to duly authorised Government agents shall be
deemed to have been made to the Federal Inland Revenue Service.
[2007 No. 53, s. 7 (b).]
16. Remission of tax
(1) A taxable person shall, on rendering a return under subsection (1) of section 15 of
this Act-
(a) 	if the output tax exceeds the input tax, remit the excess to the Board; or
(b) 	if the input tax exceeds the output tax, be entitled to a refund of the excess tax
from the Board on production of such documents as the Board may, from time
to time, require.
(2) An importer of taxable goods shall, before clearing those goods, pay to the Board
the tax on those goods.
(3) (Deleted by 2007 No. 53, s. 8.)
17. Allowable input tax, etc.
(1) For purposes of section 13 (1) of this Act, the input tax to be allowed as a deduction from
output tax shall be limited to the tax on goods purchased or imported directly
for resale and goods which form the stock-in-trade used for the direct production of any
new product on which the output tax is charged.
(1998 No. 18.]
(2) Input tax-
(a) 	on any overhead, service, and general administration of any business which
otherwise can be expended through the income statement (profit and loss ac-
counts); and
[1998 No. 18.]

-- 6 of 39 --

(b) 	on any capital item and asset which is to be capitalised along with cost of the
capital item and asset,
shall not be allowed as a deduction from output tax.
18. Effect of failure to render returns
Where a taxable person fails to render returns or renders an incomplete or inaccurate
returns, the Board shall assess, to the best of its judgment, the amount of tax due on the
taxable goods and services purchased or supplied by the taxable person.
19. Effect of non-remittance of tax
(1) If a taxable person does not remit the tax within the time specified in section 15
of this Act, a sum equal to five per cent per annum (plus interest at the commercial rate)
of the amount of tax remittable shall be added to the tax and the provisions of this Act
relating to collection and recovery of unremitted tax, penalty and interest shall apply.
(2) The Board should notify the taxable person or his agent of the tax due together
with the penalty and interest and if payment is not made within thirty days of such notification, the
Board may proceed to enforce payment as provided in section 15 of this Act.
[2007 No. 53, s. 9.]
20. Recovery of tax
(1) Any tax, penalty or interest which remains unpaid after the period specified for payment may
be recovered by the Board through proceedings in the Value Added Tax Tribunal.
[1996 No. 32.]
(2) A taxable person who is aggrieved by an assessment made on the person may file
an objection to the Federal Inland Revenue Service.
[1996 No. 32, 2007 No. 53, s. 10 (I).]
(3) An appeal before the Federal lnland Revenue Service shall be determined within
30 days.
[1996 No. 32, 2007 No. 53, s. 10 (1).]
(4) Appeal from the decisions of the Federal Inland Revenue Service shall be made
to the Tax Appeal Tribunal.
[2007 No. 53, s. 10(2).]
(5) An appeal from the Tax Appeal Tribunal shall be made to the Federal High
Court.
[2007 No. 53, s. 10(2).]
PART IV
Value Added Tax Technical Committee
21. Establishment and composition of the Value Added Tax Technical Committee
There is hereby established a committee to be known as the Value Added Tax Technical
Committee (in this Act referred to as "the Technical Committee") which shall comprise--
(a) 	a chairman who shall be the chairman of the Federal Board of Inland Revenue;
(b) 	all directors in the Federal Inland Revenue Service;
(c) 	the legal adviser to the Federal Inland Revenue Service;
[1996 No. 31.]

-- 7 of 39 --

(d) 	a director in the Nigerian Customs Service; and
(e) 	three representatives of the State Governments who shall be members of the
Joint Tax Board.
22. Functions
The functions of the Technical Committee shall be to-
(a) 	consider all the tax matters that require professional and technical expertise
and make recommendations to the Board;
(b) 	advise the Board on the duties specified in section 7 of this Act; and
(c) 	attend to such other matters as the Board may, from time to time, refer to it.
23. Proceedings
Subject to such directions as the Board may, from time to time, give, the Technical
Committee shall determine its quorum and otherwise regulate its own procedure.
24. Staff
The Federal Inland Revenue Service may post to the Technical Committee such staff
as the Technical Committee may require for the discharge of its functions.
PART V
Offences and penalties
25. Furnishing of false document, etc.
A person who-
(a) 	produces, furnishes or sends for the purpose of this Act or otherwise makes
use for that purpose of a document which is false in any material particular; or
[1996 No. 30.)
(b) 	in furnishing an information to the Board, makes a statement which is false in
any material particular,
is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of twice the amount under-
declared.
[1996 No. 30.)
26. Evasion of tax
A person who-
(a) 	participates in; or
[1996 No. 30.)
(b) 	takes steps with a view to make evasion of the tax by him or any other person,
is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of N30,000 or two
times the amount of the tax being evaded, whichever is greater, or to impris-
onment for a term not exceeding three years.
[1996 No. 30.)
27. Failure to make attribution
A person required to make an attribution, who-
(a) 	fails to do so; or
[1996 No. 30.]

-- 8 of 39 --

(b) 	having done so, fails to notify the Board, is liable to pay a penalty of N5,000.
[1996 No. 30.]
28. Failure to notify change of address
A person who fails to notify the Board of any change of address within one month of
such change, is liable to pay a penalty of N 5,000.
29. Failure to issue tax invoice
A person who fails to issue a tax invoice for goods sold or services rendered, is guilty
of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of 50% of the cost of the goods or services for which
the invoice was not issued.
30. Resisting, etc., an authorised officer
A person who-
(a) 	resists, hinders or obstructs or attempts to resist or hinder an authorised officer
acting under section 39 of this Act; or
(b) 	fails to comply fully with any requirement made under section 39 of this Act;
or
(c) 	makes any statement in response to a requirement made under section 5 of this
Act which is false or incomplete; or
[1996 No. 30.]
(d) 	procures or attempts to procure by any means any other person to act as afore-
said,
is guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of N I 0,000 or imprisonment for
a term of six months or to both such tine and imprisonment.
31. Issuing of tax invoice by an unauthorised person
A person who, other than-
(a) 	a person registered under this Act; or
(b) 	a person authorised to do so under this Act,
issues an invoice purporting to be attributable to tax, is guilty of an offence and is liable
on conviction to a tine of N l0,000 or imprisonment for a term of six months.
32. Failure to register
A taxable person who fails to register under this Act, is guilty of an offence and liable
on conviction to a fine of N5,000 and, if after one month, the person is not registered, the
premises where the business is carried on shall be liable to be sealed up.
[1996 No. 30.]

-- 9 of 39 --

33. Failure to keep proper records and accounts
A taxable person who fails to keep records and accounts of his business transactions
to allow for the correct ascertainment of tax and filing of returns is liable to pay a penalty
of N 2,000 for every month in which the failure continues.
34. Failure to collect tax
A taxable person, who fails to collect tax under this Act, is liable to pay as penalty
150% of the amount not collected, plus 5% interest above the Central Bank of Nigeria
rediscount rate.
35. Failure to submit returns
A taxable person who fails to submit returns to the Board, is liable to a fine of N 5, 000
for every month in which the failure continues.
36. Aiding and abetting commission of offence, etc.
(1) An officer of the Board or any other person who aids or abets the commission of
any of the offences under this Act, is guilty of an offence and is liable on conviction to a
fine of N50,000 or to imprisonment for a term of five years.
(2) Where a person's conduct during any specified period has involved the commission or
omission by him of anyone or more of the foregoing offences under this Act, then
whether or not the particulars of the offences are known, he shall, by virtue of this section, be guilty
of an offence and liable to pay a fine of N 10,000 or four times the amount
of any tax that was, or was intended to be evaded by his conduct, whichever is greater, or
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
37. Offence by body corporate, etc.
Where an offence under this Act is committed by a body corporate or firm or other
association of individuals-
(a) 	every director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body corpo-
rate; or
(b) 	every partner or officer of the firm; or
(c) 	every person concerned in the management of the affairs of the association; or
(d) 	every person who was purporting to act in any capacity as aforesaid,
is severally guilty of that offence and liable to be proceeded against and punished for the
offence in like manner as if he had himself committed the offence, unless he proves that
the act or omission constituting the offence took place without his knowledge, consent or
connivance.

-- 10 of 39 --

PART VI
Miscellaneous
38. Powers of Minister to vary Schedules
The Minister may by order published in the Gazelle-
(a) 	amend the rate of tax chargeable; and
[First Schedule.]
(b) 	amend, vary or modify the list set out in the First Schedule to this Act.
[1996 No. 31.]
39. Power of inspection
(1) An authorised officer may at any time enter without warrant any premises upon
which he has reasonable grounds to believe that a person is carrying on business in order
to ascertain whether this Act is being complied with (whether on the part of the occupier
of the premises or any other person), and on entry he may carry out such inspections and
make such requirements as may be specified by the Board.
(2) Where an authorised officer enters any premises in exercise of the power conferred
on him by subsection (1) of this section, he may take with him such persons as he
considers necessary for carrying out his functions under this Act.
40. Distribution of revenue
Notwithstanding any formula that may be prescribed by any other law, the revenue
accruing by virtue of the operation of this Act shall be distributed as follows-
(a) 	15% to the Federal Government;
(b) 	50% to the State Governments and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja; and
(c) 	35% to the Local Governments:
Provided that the principle of derivation of not less than 20% shall be reflected in
the distribution of the allocation amongst States and Local Governments as specified in
paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
[1999 No. 30, 2007 No. 53, s. 11.]
41. Appointment of agent for manufacturer or importer
(1) The Board may, by notice in writing, appoint any person to be the agent of any
manufacturer or importer and the person so appointed shall be the agent of the manufacturer or
importer for the purposes of this Act.
(2) An agent may be required to pay any tax which is or may become payable by the
manufacturer or importer from any money which may be held by him for, or due by or to
become due by him to the manufacturer or importer, as the case may be, and in default of
such payment, the tax shall be recoverable from him.
(3) For the purpose of this section, the Board may require a person to give information as to any
money, fund or other assets which may be held by him for, or of any money due from him to a
manufacturer or an importer.

-- 11 of 39 --

42. Signification
Anything required to be done by the Board under this Act may be signified under the
hand of the chairman or any other senior officer assigned to do so by him.
43. Forms
The Board may, from time to time, specify the forms, statements and notices to be
used under this Act.
44. Regulations
The Board may, with the approval of the Minister, make regulations for giving effect
to the provisions of this Act.
45. Repeal
Subject to section 6 of the Interpretation Act, the Sales Tax Act is hereby repealed.
[Cap. 123.]
46. Interpretation
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-
"agency of Government" includes a Ministry, department, statutory body, public authority
and an institution of the Federal, State and Local Government;
[1996 No. 31,1998 No. 18.]
"authorised officer" means an officer who has been authorised by the Board to per-
form any function under or in pursuance of this Act;
"Board" means the Federal Board of Inland Revenue;
"building" means any house, including any garage, dwelling apartment, hospital and
institutional building, factory, warehouse, theatre, cinema, store, mill building and similarly roofed
structure affording protection and shelter, radio and television masts, transmission line, tower, vehicle
and other similar structure but excludes mobile homes, caravans and trailers;
"business" includes any trade, commerce or manufacture or any concern in the nature of trade,
commerce or manufacture;
"chairman" means the chairman of the Federal Board of lnland Revenue;
"company" means a company as defined under the Companies and Allied Matters
Act and a corporate body that may be formed under any other written law and includes
any association, whether incorporated in or outside Nigeria;
[Cap. C20.]

-- 12 of 39 --

"entertainment" includes any exhibition and performance in which admission of
people is subject to payment by such persons but does not include the following, that
is-
(a) 	play on stage and performance which are carried out by educational institutions, approved by
the Minister for the time being responsible for education as part of learning;
(b) 	sport, game or other cultural performance conducted under the superintendence of the
Ministry charged with the responsibility for culture and social welfare;
(c) 	entertainment of a charitable, educational, medical, scientific or cultural nature
as may be approved in writing by the Board prior to the date of the entertainment for the
benefit of the public; and
(d) 	entertainment organised by a non-profit making, charitable, educational, medical, scientific or
cultural society registered under the law where the entertainment is in furtherance of the
objectives of the society as may be approved in writing by the Board to the date of the
entertainment;
"exported service" means service performed by a Nigerian resident or a Nigerian
company to a person outside Nigeria;
[2007 No. 53, s. 12.]
"import" means bringing in or carrying to be brought in goods and services from an-
other country or from an export processing zone;
"imported service" means service rendered in Nigeria by a non-resident person to a
person inside Nigeria;
[2007 No. 53, s. 12.]
"importer" means any person who imports taxable goods;
"input tax" has the meaning assigned to it in section 12 of this Act;
"invoice" means any document issued as an evidence of demand for payment;
"manufacturer" means any person who engages in the manufacture of goods and includes a
person who has manufactured for him or on his behalf by others, goods made to
his specification or design;
"manufacturing" means the process by which a commodity is finally produced, including
assembling, bottling, repacking, mixing, blending, grinding, cutting, bending,
twisting and joining or any other similar activity;
"Minister" means the Minister responsible for matters relating to Finance;
"motel" means premises on which accommodation, flats, service apartments, beach cottages,
holiday cottages, game lodges are provided but excludes the following, that is-
(a) 	premises run by a charitable or religious organisation registered under the relevant law
for charitable or religious purposes;
(b) 	premises operated by a medical institution approved by the Minister for the
time being responsible for health for the use of the staff of that institution;

-- 13 of 39 --

(c) 	premises whose supply is under a lease or licence of not less than one month,
unless by prior arrangement, the occupier may without penalty, terminate that
lease or licence on less than one month's notice;
"output tax" has the meaning assigned to it in section 11 of this Act;
"owner" means in respect of any goods, aircraft, vessel, vehicle, plant or any other
goods, a person, other than an officer acting officially, who holds out himself to be the
owner, manufacturer, agent or the person in possession of or beneficially interested in, or
having control of or power of disposition over the goods, aircraft, vessel, vehicle, plant
or other goods;
"registered person" means any person registered under section 8 of the Act;
"restaurant" means any establishment carrying out the business of restaurant ser-
vices, and includes cafeterias, fast-food outlets, snacks bars, food stuffs at exhibitions or
sports arenas and similar establishments but excludes-
(a) 	an establishment operated for charitable or religious purposes;
(b) 	an establishment run by an educational or training institution approved by the
Minister for the use of the staff and students of those institutions; and
(c) 	an establishment run by a medical institution approved by the Minister for the
time being responsible for health for the use of the staff and students of the
institution;
"restaurant service" means the supply of foods or beverages prepared for immediate
consumption, whether or not such consumption is on the premises of the restaurant and
including outside catering;
"supplies" means any transaction, whether it is the sale of goods or the performances
of a service for a consideration, that is, for money or money's worth;
"supply of goods" means any transaction where the whole property in the goods is
transferred or where the agreement expressly contemplates that this will happen and in
particular includes the sale and delivery of taxable goods or services used outside the
business, the letting out of taxable goods on hire or leasing, and any disposal of taxable
goods;
"supply of services" means any service provided for a consideration;
"tax" means the Value Added Tax imposed and charged under section 1 of this Act;
"tax period" means one calendar month commencing from the beginning of the
month to the end of that month;
"taxable goods and services" means the goods and services not listed in the First