1. OBJECTIVE
The objective of the small claims procedure is to provide easy access to
an informal, inexpensive, and speedy resolution of simple debt recovery
disputes in the Magistrates’ Courts.
2. COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION
(1) An action may be commenced in the Small Claims Court where:
(a) The Claimant or one of the Claimants resides or carries on
business in Lagos State.
(b) The Defendant or Defendants resides or carries on business in
Lagos State.
(c) The cause of action arose wholly or in part in Lagos State.
(d) The claim is for a liquidated money demand in a sum not
exceeding ₦5,000,000 (Five Million Naira) excluding interest
and costs.
(e) The Claimant has served on the Defendant a Letter of Demand
as in Form SCA 1.
(2) The action shall be commenced by Claim upon the completion of a
Small Claims Complaint Form as in Form SCA 2.
(3) The Summons shall be issued as in Form SCA 3 upon the Registrar
being satisfied that the requirements of 2 (1) above have been met.
3. SUMMARY JUDGMENT
(1) Where a Claimant believes that there is no defence to his claim, he
may file with the Summons, an Application for Summary Judgment
as in Form SCA 3A.


5
(2) The Application for Summary Judgment shall be supported by an
Affidavit stating the grounds for his belief (that there is no defence
to his claim) as in Form SCA 3B.
(3) If the Defendant files a Counter-affidavit specified in Article 7 (2)
below, the Claimant may file a Further-affidavit to the Defendant’s
Counter-affidavit within 5 days of service of the Counter-affidavit.
(4) Where it appears to a Magistrate that the Defendant has a good
defence and ought to be permitted to defend the claim, he may be
granted leave to defend.
(5) Where it appears to a Magistrate that the Defendant does not have
a good defence, the Magistrate may enter judgment for the
Claimant.
(6) Where it appears to a Magistrate that the Defendant has a good
defence to part of the claim but does not have a good defence to
other parts of the claim, the Magistrate may enter judgment for that
part of the claim to which there is no defence and grant leave to
defend that part to which there is a defence.
(7) Where there are several Defendants, and it appears to a Magistrate
that one or more of the Defendants have a good defence, the
Magistrate may permit such Defendants to defend and enter
Judgment against the other Defendants.
4. MARKING AND PAYMENT OF FILING FEES
When a case satisfies the criteria in Article 2 above, the Assistant Chief
Registrar or any person in charge of the Small Claims Registry shall cause
the claim to be marked “Qualified for Small Claims” and direct the
Claimant to pay appropriate filing fees.
5. ASSIGNMENT OF SMALL CLAIMS FILE
(1) Upon the marking of the Claim, the Assistant Chief Registrar shall
within 24 hours forward the case file to the Administrative Magistrate
for assignment to a Magistrate of the Small Claims Court.


6
(2) The Administrative Magistrate shall, within 24 hours of receipt of the
case file, assign the file to a Magistrate of the Small Claims Court.
Such a case assignment shall be on a random basis.
6. SERVICE
(1) The Summons and other relevant Forms shall be served by the
Sheriff of the Small Claims Court within 7 days of filing.
(2) Service shall be effected between the hours of 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. on
weekdays and Saturdays.
(3) Upon service, the Sheriff of the Small Claims Court shall file an
Affidavit of Service as in Form SCA 6 within 2 days of service.
(4) The provision of the Magistrates’ Courts (Civil Procedure) Rules
regarding mode of service, except as provided herein shall apply to
any process of whatever description issued by the Small Claims
Court.
(5) Where the Sheriff of the Small Claims Court is unable to serve the
Summons and other relevant Forms on the Defendant within the
time specified in (1) above, he shall file an Affidavit of Non-Service
as in Form SCA 4 after the expiration of the time allowed for service.
(6) In the event of (5) above, the Claimant shall apply for an Order of
substituted service of the Summons and other relevant Forms on
the Defendant by filling Form SCA 7.
7. FILING OF DEFENCE/ADMISSION/COUNTERCLAIM/COUNTER
AFFIDAVIT TO APPLICATION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
(1) Upon service of the Summons, the Defendant shall file his Defence
or Admission or Counterclaim within 6 days by completing Form
SCA 5 as appropriate.
(2) A Defendant who has been served with an Application for Summary
Judgment shall file (along with Form SCA 5 and within the 6 days
stipulated for him to enter a Defence) a Counter-affidavit as in Form
SCA 5A stating why summary judgment should not be entered
against him.


7
(3) The provision of Article 6 on service of Summons shall apply to
service of a Counterclaim.
(4) Where a Defendant fails to file an answer to the Claim, or a Counter-
affidavit to the Application for Summary Judgment, such Defendant
shall be held to have admitted the Claim.
8. COUNTERCLAIM
(1) If at the time the action is commenced the Defendant intends to
claim against the Claimant a liquidated money demand not
exceeding ₦5,000,000.00 (Five Million Naira) (excluding interest
and costs) and which Claim arises out of the same transaction or
series of transactions, the Defendant shall fill a Counterclaim form
as in Form SCA 5 in answer to the Claim.
(2) If at the time the action is commenced, the Defendant intends to
claim against the Claimant a liquidated money demand exceeding
₦5,000,000.00 (Five Million Naira) but not more than
₦10,000,000.00 (Ten Million Naira) (excluding interest and costs),
the Defendant may file a Counterclaim in the pending Small Claims
action by filling Form SCA 5.
(3) If at the time the action is commenced, the Defendant has a
Counterclaim that exceeds the general jurisdiction of the
Magistrates’ Court, the Defendant may file the Counterclaim, by
filling Form SCA 5, PROVIDED that any Judgment in the
Defendant’s favour shall be limited to the general jurisdiction of the
Magistrates’ Courts.
(4) In the event of (3) above, the Defendant/ Counterclaimant shall
expressly state that he has abandoned any claim in excess of
₦10,000,000.00 (Ten Million Naira) (excluding interest and costs).
(5) The Defendant’s Counterclaim shall be limited to the Claimant(s) on
record.
(6) The Claimant may file a Reply to the Defendant’s Defence and a
Defence to Counterclaim within 5 days of service of the Defendant’s
Defence and Counterclaim.
(7) No pleadings after Reply are allowed.


8
9. NON-APPEARANCE
(1) When the Claim is called for hearing on the date fixed and neither
party appears, the Magistrate shall unless he sees good reason to
the contrary, strike out the Claim.
(2) When the Claim is called for hearing and the Claimant appears, but
the Defendant does not appear, provided there is proof of service,
the Magistrate shall proceed with the hearing of the Claim and enter
Judgment as far as the Claimant can prove his Claim.
(3) When the Claim is called for hearing, and the Defendant appears
but the Claimant does not appear, the Defendant if he has no
Counterclaim, shall be entitled to an Order striking out the Claim,
but if he has a Counterclaim, the Magistrate shall proceed to hear
the Counterclaim and enter Judgment accordingly, as far as the
Defendant can prove his Counterclaim.
(4) Where a claim has been struck out in (1) or (3) above, it shall not be
re-listed.
10. PROCEEDINGS AT THE HEARING
(1) At the first appearance of the parties before the Court, the
Magistrate shall promote, encourage, and facilitate an amicable
settlement of the dispute among the parties by providing settlement
options to the parties as the Magistrate deems fit. The process of
facilitating an amicable settlement of the dispute among the parties
shall not exceed 7 days.
1(A) Pre-Trial Conference
Where the Magistrate considers it necessary for the efficient
disposal of the matter, the Magistrate may, at the first appearance
of the parties or within the seven days provided for in Article 10(1)
above:
(a) assess the complexity and scope of the dispute and estimate the
projected length of trial;


9
(b) establish a timetable for the completion of the exchange of
witness lists and documents, filing of evidence, and hearing
dates;
(c) identify and narrow the issues in dispute between the parties;
and
(d) limit the number of witnesses or time allocated for examination
where necessary to ensure proportionality and compliance with
the timelines prescribed under this Practice Direction.
(1B) Exchange of Witness Lists
Each party shall, at or before the first appearance, exchange with
the other party a list containing the names and particulars of
witnesses intended to be called at the hearing. Save with the leave
of the Court, no party shall call a witness whose name was not
disclosed in the witness list.
(1C) Sanctions for Non-Compliance
Where a party fails without reasonable excuse to comply with any
timetable or direction given under Article 10(1A), the Court may
make such other order as the Court deems fit in the interest of
justice.
(2) Notwithstanding (1) above, the parties are encouraged to contact
one another to settle the matter amicably. The Court shall be
informed at the hearing if the case is settled by agreement before
that date, and a Consent Judgment may be entered by the Court
accordingly.
(3) If the parties are unable to settle the dispute amicably, the
Magistrate shall proceed to hear any application for Summary
Judgment or give directions for hearing the Claim or the
Counterclaim.
(4) The hearing shall be conducted by the Court from day to day as far
as is practicable and may only be adjourned as a last resort and for
the shortest possible time.
(5) Proceedings may be conducted through a video link, or any other
virtual platform as may be directed by the Court.


10
(6) An adjournment can only be granted during proceedings in
unforeseen or exceptional circumstances and a party may not be
granted more than one adjournment during the entire proceedings.
(7) The entire hearing period shall not be more than 30 days from the
first date of the hearing, inclusive of the seven 7 days for amicable
settlement.
11. REPRESENTATION
(1) Parties may represent themselves at the proceedings in the Small
Claims Court.
(2) Partnerships, Registered Companies, and Incorporated Trustees can
be represented by either a Partner, Company Secretary or any other
Principal Officer of the Partnership or Company, or a Trustee, or other
Principal Officer of the Incorporated Trustees.
12. EVIDENCE
(1) Parties may testify for themselves and tender all necessary
documents and they may call other witnesses to give evidence at the
hearing.
(2) In the interest of justice, the Court may depart from the strict
application of provisions of the Evidence Act.
13. JUDGMENT
(1) The Magistrate shall deliver Judgment within 14 days of the
completion of the hearing. The Court shall include in its Judgment,
Rulings on any interlocutory applications heard in the proceedings.
(2) The entire period of proceedings from the filing of the Claim to
delivery of the Judgment shall not exceed 60 days.
(3) The Judgment of the Court shall not be invalid because the entire
proceedings of the Court exceeded 60 days.


11
(4) The Magistrate shall endeavour to issue authenticated copies of the
Judgment immediately after its delivery but in any event not
exceeding 7 days from the date of the delivery of the Judgment.
14. ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT
(1) The Defendant or Defendant to Counterclaim (as the case may be)
shall comply with the Judgment and pay the Judgment sum
forthwith.
(2) Upon default of the Defendant or Defendant to Counterclaim to pay
the Judgment sum forthwith, the Judgment shall be enforced in the
same manner as any Order of the Magistrates’ Court for the
payment of money.
15. APPEALS
(1) Where either party is aggrieved with the Judgment, such party shall
comply with the provisions of Section 70 (1) & (2) of the Magistrates'
Courts Law with regards to leave of the Magistrates’ Court.
(2) The aggrieved party shall file the Notice of Appeal as in Form SCA
8B within 14 days of delivery of the Judgment stating the reasons
for the Appeal.
(3) The Assistant Chief Registrar of the Small Claims Court Registry
shall compile the Records of Appeal within 14 days of the
submission of Form SCA 8B.
(4) The Records of Appeal shall thereafter be forwarded to the Fast
Track Registry of the High Court, where it is then assigned to a
Judge of the Fast Track Court designated to hear appeals from the
Small Claims Court.
(5) The Judge, so designated, shall cause a Hearing Notice to be
issued to the parties and the Appeal shall be heard at the earliest
convenience of the Court.
(6) The Appeal shall be heard on the Records of Appeal and the written
briefs of the parties.


12
(7) The whole Appellate Process from the assignment of the Appeal to
Judgment shall not exceed 30 days.
16. GENERAL PROVISION
(1) Every Magistrate presiding in a Small Claims Court shall take
judicial control and management of all cases assigned to the
Magistrate by the Chief Magistrate (Admin.)
(2) The Magistrate shall fill the Small Claims Court Cases Assessment
Form attached to the case file.
(3) The Magistrate shall record on the Small Claims Court Assessment
Form the day when the proceedings commenced and was
concluded.
(4) Where 60 days have expired from the date of filing of a claim and
no Judgment has been delivered, the Magistrate shall report to the
Chief Magistrate (Admin.) stating the reason(s) for the delay in not
concluding the matter within 60 days.
(5) The Chief Magistrate (Admin.) upon receiving the report from the
Magistrate shall reassign the case file to the same Magistrate for
adjudication as a general civil matter.
(6) The Magistrate shall include such a case file in the monthly returns
as a matter converted to the general civil cause list.
(7) The monthly returns shall be collated and submitted to the Collation
Unit of the Small Claims Court Secretariat (not later than the seventh
day of the subsequent month) for online publication on the Lagos
State Judiciary website.
(8) There shall be compiled a quarterly report of returns by the Small
Claims Court Magistrates which shall be submitted to the Judicial
Service Commission for performance evaluation purposes.
17. WHERE NO PROVISION EXIST
Where no provision is made in this Practice Direction, the provisions of
the Magistrates’ Court (Civil Procedure) Rules; the High Court (Appeal)


13
Rules or any other written law for the time being in force shall so far as
they can be conveniently applied, be in force in the Small Claims Court.
