1. 	The objectives of this Act are to –
(a) provide an effective and unified legal, regulatory and institutional framework for
the prohibition, prevention, detection, prosecution and punishment of cybercrimes
in Nigeria;
(b) ensure the protection of critical national information infrastructure; and
(c) promote cyber security and the protection of computer systems and networks,
electronic communications, data and computer programs, intellectual property and
privacy rights.
Objectives.
2. 	The provisions of this Act shall apply throughout the Federal Republic of Nigeria. 	Application.
PART II -­‐ PROTECTION OF CRITICAL NATIONAL INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE
3. 	(1) The President may on the recommendation of the National Security Adviser, by
Order published in the Federal Gazette, designate certain computer systems, and/or
networks, whether physical or virtual, and/or the computer programs, computer
data and/or traffic data vital to this country that the incapacity or destruction of or
interference with such system and assets would have a debilitating impact on
security, national or economic security, national public health and safety, or any
combination 	of 	those 	matters 	as 	constituting 	Critical 	National 	Information
Infrastructure.
(2) The Presidential Order made under subsection (1) of this section may prescribe
minimum standards, guidelines, rules or procedure in respect of -­‐
(a) the protection or preservation of critical information infrastructure;
(b) the general management of critical information infrastructure;
(c) access to, transfer and control of data in any critical information infrastructure;
Designation of
certain
computer
systems or
networks as
critical national
information
infrastructure.

-- 5 of 43 --

(d) infrastructural or procedural rules and requirements for securing the integrity and
authenticity of data or information contained in any designated critical national
information infrastructure;
(e) the storage or archiving of data or information designated as critical national
information infrastructure;
(f) recovery plans in the event of disaster, breach or loss of the critical national
information infrastructure or any part of it; and
(g) any other matter required for the adequate protection, management and control
of data and other resources in any critical national information infrastructure.
4. 	The Presidential Order made under section 3 of this Act may require the Office of the
National Security Adviser to audit and inspect any Critical National Information
Infrastructure at any time to ensure compliance with the provisions of this Act.
Audit and
Inspection of
critical national
information
infrastructure.
PART III -­‐ OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
5. 	(1) Any person who with intent, commits any offence punishable under this Act
against any critical national information infrastructure, designated pursuant to
section 3 of this Act, shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of not
more than 10 years without an option of fine.
(2) Where the offence committed under subsection (1) of this section results in
grievous bodily harm to any person, the offender shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term of not more than 15 years without option of fine.
(3) Where the offence committed under subsection (1) of this section results in the
death of person(s), the offender shall be liable on conviction to life imprisonment.
Offences against
critical national
information
infrastructure.
6. 	(1) Any person, who without authorization, intentionally accesses in whole or in part,
a computer system or network for fraudulent purposes and obtain data that are vital
to 	national 	security, 	commits 	an 	offence 	and 	shall 	be 	liable 	on 	conviction
to imprisonment for a term of not more than 5 years or to a fine of not more than
N5,000,000.00 or to both fine and imprisonment.
(2) Where the offence provided in subsection (1) of this section is committed with
the intent of obtaining computer data, securing access to any program, commercial
or industrial secrets or classified information, the punishment shall be imprisonment
for a term of not more than 7 years or a fine of not more than N7, 000,000.00 or to
both such fine and imprisonment.
(3) Any person who, with the intent to commit an offence under this section, uses
any device to avoid detection or otherwise prevent identification or attribution with
the act or omission, commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
Unlawful access
to a computer.

-- 6 of 43 --

imprisonment for a term of not more than 7 years or to a fine of not more than
N7,000,000.00 or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(4) Any person or organisation who knowingly and intentionally trafficks in any
password or similar information through which a computer may be accessed without
lawful authority, if such trafficking affects public, private and or individual interest
within or outside the federation of Nigeria, commits an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine of not more than N7, 000,000.00 or imprisonment for a term of
not more than 3 years or both such fine and imprisonment.
7. 	(1) From the commencement of this Act all operators of a cybercafé shall register as
a business concern with Computer Professionals’ Registration Council in addition to a
business name registration with the Corporate Affairs Commission. Cybercafés shall
maintain a register of users through a sign-­‐in register. This register shall be available
to law enforcement personnel whenever needed.
(2) Any person, who perpetrates electronic fraud or online fraud using a cybercafé,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be sentenced to Three Years imprisonment or a
fine of One Million Naira or both.
(3) In the event of proven connivance by the owners of the cybercafé, such owners
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable to a fine of N 2,000,000.00 or a 3 years
jail term or both.
(4) The burden of proving connivance in subsection 3 above shall be on the
prosecutor.
Registration of
Cybercafé.
8. 	Any person who without 	lawful authority, intentionally or for fraudulent purposes
does an act which causes directly or indirectly the serious hindering of the
functioning of a computer system by inputting, transmitting, damaging, deleting,
deteriorating, 	altering 	or 	suppressing 	computer 	data 	or 	any 	other 	form 	of
interference with the computer system, which prevents the computer system or any
part thereof, from functioning in accordance with its intended purpose, commits an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of not more
than 2 years or to a fine of not more than N5,000,000.00 or to both fine and
imprisonment.
System
Interference.
9. 	Any person who unlawfully destroys or aborts any electronic mails or processes
through which money and or valuable information is being conveyed is guilty of an
offence and is liable to imprisonment for 7 years in the first instance and upon
second conviction shall be liable to 14 years imprisonment.
Intercepting
Electronic
Messages,
Emails Electronic
Money
Transfers.
10. 	From the commencement of this Act, any person being employed by or under a Local
Government of Nigeria, private organization or financial institution with respect to
working with any critical infrastructure, electronic mails commits any act which he is
not authorized to do by virtue of his contract of service or intentionally permits,
Tampering with
Critical
Infrastructure.

-- 7 of 43 --

tampering with such computer, is guilty of an offence and is liable to a fine of N2
,000,000.00 or imprisonment for 3 years .
11. 	Any person who misdirects electronic messages with either the intention to
fraudulently obtain financial gain as a result of such act or with the intention of
obstructing the process in order to cause delay or speeding the messages with a view
to cause an omission or commission that may defeat the essence of such messages is
guilty of an offence and is liable to imprisonment for Three Years or a fine of N1
,000,000.00 or both.
Willful
misdirection of
Electronic
Messages.
12.
13.
(1) Any person, who intentionally and without authorization, intercepts by technical
means, non-­‐public transmissions of computer data, content, or traffic data, including
electromagnetic emissions or signals from a computer, computer system or network
carrying or emitting signals, to or from a computer, computer system or connected
system or network; commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term of not more than 2 years or to a fine of not more than
N5,000,000.00 or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) Any person or organization who by means of false pretense induces any person
employed by or under the government of the federal, state or local government of
Nigeria or any person in charge of electronic devices to deliver to him any electronic
messages which 	includes but is not limited to E-­‐mail, credit and debit cards
information, facsimile messages which is not specifically meant for him or his
organization (in the latter case except he is authorized to receive such messages for
and on behalf of his organization) commits an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to imprisonment for a term of Two Years or a fine of not more than
N1,000,000 or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(3) Any person who, being employed by or under the authorities of the Local, State,
Federal Government of Nigeria or private organization who intentionally hides or
detains any electronic mails, messages, electronic payment, credit and debit card
which was found by him or delivered to him in error and which to his knowledge
ought to be delivered to another person, commits an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to imprisonment for 1 Year or a fine of N250,000 Naira or to both fine and
imprisonment.
A person who knowingly accesses any computer or network and inputs, alters,
deletes or suppresses any data resulting in inauthentic data with the intention that
such inauthentic data will be considered or acted upon as if it were authentic or
genuine, regardless of whether or not such data is directly readable or intelligible,
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of not less
than 3 years or to a fine of not less than 7,000,000.00 or both
Unlawful
interceptions.
Computer
Related Forgery.
14. 	(1) Any person who knowingly and without authority or in excess of authority causes 	Computer
Related Fraud.

-- 8 of 43 --

15.
any loss of property to another by altering, erasing, inputting or suppressing any data
held in any computer, whether or not for the purpose of conferring any economic
benefits on himself or another person, commits an offence and is liable on conviction
to imprisonment for a term of not less than 3 years or to a fine of not less than
7,000,000.00 or both fine and imprisonment.
(2) Any person who with intent to defraud sends electronic message materially
misrepresents any fact or set of facts upon which reliance the recipient or another
person is caused to suffer any damage or loss, commits an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to imprisonment for a term of not less than 5 years and to a fine of not
less than N10,000,000.00 or to both fine and imprisonment.
(3) Any person who with intent to defraud, franks electronic messages, instructions,
super scribes any electronic message and or instruction, commits an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of not more than 3 years or
to a fine of not more than N5,000,000.00 or to both such fine and imprisonment
(4) Any person employed in the public or private sector, who with intent to defraud,
manipulates a computer or other electronic payment devices with the intent to short
pay or overpay or actually short pays or overpays any employee of the public or
private sector, commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment
for a term of not more than 7 Years and shall forfeit the proprietary interest in the
stolen money or property to the bank, financial institution or the customer.
(a) Any person employed by or under the authority of any bank or other financial
institutions who with intent to defraud, directly or indirectly, diverts electronic mails,
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of
not more than 5 Years or a fine of not more than N7,000,000.00 or to both fine and
imprisonment.
(b) Any person who commits an offence under subsection (4) above, which results in
material and/or financial loss to the bank, financial institution and/or customers shall
in addition to 7 years imprisonment be liable to refund the stolen money or forfeit
any property to which it has been converted to the bank, financial institution or the
customer.
(5) Any employee of a financial institution found to have connived with another
person or group of persons to perpetrate fraud using computer system(s) or
network, commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a
term of not more than 7 years and shall in addition, refund the stolen money or
forfeit any property to which it has been converted to the bank, financial institution
or the customer.
(a) 	Any person who steals a financial institutions or Public Infrastructure Terminal
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of 3
years or a fine of N1,000,000.00 or to both fine and imprisonment.
Theft of
Electronic
Devices.

-- 9 of 43 --

(b) Any person who steals an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) commits an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of not more than 7 years
or a fine of not more than N10,000,000.00 or to both fine and imprisonment. 	All
proceeds of such theft shall be forfeited to the lawful owners of the ATM.
(c) Any person who attempts to steal an ATM, commits an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to imprisonment for a term of not more than 1 year or a fine of not
more than N1,000,000.00 or both fine and imprisonment.
16. 	(1) Any person who with intent and without lawful authority directly or indirectly
modifies or causes modification of any data held in any computer system or network,
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of
not more than 3 years or to a fine of not more than N7,000,000.00 or to both such
fine and imprisonment.
(2) For the purpose of this section, a modification of any data held in any computer
system or network includes modifications that take place whereby the operation of
any function of the computer system or network concerned, or any-­‐
(a) program or data held in it is altered or erased;
(b) program or data is added to or removed from any program or data held in it;
(c) program or data is suppressed to prevent or terminate the availability of the data
or function to its authorized users; or
(d) act occurs which impairs the normal operation of any computer, computer
system or network concerned.
(3) Any person who without lawful authority, intentionally does an act which causes
directly or indirectly the serious hindering of the functioning of a computer system by
inputting, transmitting, damaging, deleting, deteriorating, altering or suppressing
computer data or any other form of interference with the computer system, which
prevents the computer system or any part thereof, from functioning in accordance
with its intended purpose, commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term of not more than 2 years or to a fine of not more than
N5,000,000.00 or to both such fine and imprisonment.
Unauthorized
modification of
computer
systems,
network data
and System
interference.
17. 	(1) (a) Electronic signature in respect of purchases of goods, and any other
transactions shall be binding.
(b) Whenever the geniuses or otherwise of such signatures is in question, the burden
of proof, that the signature does not belong to the purported originator of such
electronic signatures shall be on the contender.
(c) Any person who with the intent to defraud and or misrepresent, forges through
electronic devices another person’s signature or company mandate commits an
Electronic
Signatures.

-- 10 of 43 --

18.
offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of not more
than 7 years or a fine of not more than N10,000,000.00 or to both fine and
imprisonment.
(2) The following transactions shall be excluded from the categories of contractual
transactions or declarations that are valid by virtue of electronic signature:
(a) creation and execution of wills, codicils and or other testamentary documents;
(b) Death certificate;
(c) Birth certificate;
(d) matters of family law such as marriage, divorce, adoption and other related
issues;
(e) issuance of court orders, notices, official court documents such as affidavit,
pleadings, motions and other related judicial documents and instruments;
(f) any cancellation or termination of utility services;
(g) any instrument required to accompany any transportation or handling of
dangerous materials either solid or liquid in nature;
(h) any document ordering withdrawal of drugs, chemicals and any other material
either on the ground that such items are fake, dangerous to the people or the
environment or expired by any authority empowered to issue orders for withdrawal
of such items.
(1) Any person that accesses or causes to be accessed any computer or computer
system or network for purposes of terrorism, commits an offence and is liable on
conviction to life imprisonment.
(2) For the purpose of this section, “terrorism” shall have the same meaning under
the Terrorism (Prevention) Act, 2011, as amended.
Cyber Terrorism.
19. 	(1) From the commencement of this Act, no financial institution shall give posting
and authorizing access to any single employee.
(2) Any person or persons authorized to give access to computer to employees and
gives more than one access to any person or persons is guilty of an offense and is
liable to payment of a fine of One Million Naira or Seven years imprisonment or both.
(3) Financial institutions must as a duty to their customers put in place effective
counter-­‐fraud measures to safeguard their sensitive information, where a security
breach occurs the proof of negligence lies on the customer to prove the financial
institution in question could have done more to safeguard its information integrity.
Exceptions to
Financial
Institutions,
Posting and
authorized
options.

-- 11 of 43 --

20. 	Any person being authorized by any financial institution and charged with the
responsibility of using computer or other electronic devices for financial transactions
such as posting of debit and credit, issuance of electronic instructions as they relate
to sending of electronic debit and credit messages or charged with the duty of
confirmation of electronic fund transfer, unlawfully with the intent to defraud issues
false 	electronic 	or 	verbal 	messages 	is 	guilty 	of 	an 	offence 	and 	is 	liable 	to
imprisonment for 7 years.
Fraudulent
issuance of E-­‐
Instructions.
21. 	(1) Any person or institution, who operates a computer system or a network,
whether public or 	private, must immediately inform the National Computer
Emergency Response Team (CERT) Coordination Center of any attacks, intrusions and
other disruptions liable to hinder the functioning of another computer system or
network, so that the National CERT can take the necessary measures to tackle the
issues.
(2) In such cases mentioned in subsection (1) above, and in order to protect
computer systems and networks, the National CERT Coordination Center may
propose the isolation of affected computer systems or network pending the
resolution of the issues.
(3) Any person or institution who fails to report any such incident to the National
CERT within 7 days of its occurrence, commits an offence and shall be liable to denial
of internet services. Such persons or institution shall in addition, pay a mandatory
fine of N2, 000,000.00 into the National Cyber Security Fund.
Reporting of
Cyber Threats.
22. 	(1) Any person who is engaged in the services of any financial institution, and as a
result of his special knowledge commits identity theft of its employer, staff, service
providers and consultants with the intent to defraud is guilty of an offence and upon
conviction shall be sentenced to 7 years imprisonment or N5,000,000.00 fine or both.
(2) Any person who fraudulently or dishonestly makes use of the electronic
signature, password or any other unique identification feature of any other person;
or
(3)fraudulently impersonates another entity or person, living or dead, with intent to -­‐
(a) gain advantage for himself or another person;
(b) obtain any property or an interest in any property;
(c) cause disadvantage to the entity or person being impersonated or another
person; or
(d) avoid arrest or prosecution or to obstruct, pervert or defeat the course of justice.
(4) any person who makes or causes to be made, either directly or indirectly, any
Identity theft
and
impersonation.

-- 12 of 43 --

false statement as to a material fact in writing, knowing it to be false and with intent
that it be relied upon respecting his identity or that of any other person or his
financial condition or that of any other person for the purpose of procuring the
issuance of a card or other instrument to himself or another person commits an
offence and 	shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of 	not more
than 5 years or a fine of not more than N7,000,000.00 or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
23. 	(1) Any person who intentionally uses any computer system or network in or for-­‐
(a) producing child pornography;
(b) offering or making available child pornography;
(c) distributing or transmitting child pornography;
(d) procuring child pornography for oneself or for another person;
(e) possessing child pornography in a computer system or on a computer-­‐data
storage medium:
commits an offence under this Act and shall be liable on conviction –
(i) in the case of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) to imprisonment for a term of 10 years or
a fine of not more than N20,000,000.00 or to both fine and imprisonment; and
(ii) in the case of paragraphs(d) and (e) of this subsection, to imprisonment for a term
of not more than 5 years or a fine of not more than N10,000,000.00 or to both such
fine and imprisonment.
(2) Any person who knowingly makes or sends other pornographic images to another
computer by way of unsolicited distribution shall be guilty of an offence and upon
conviction shall be sentenced to One year imprisonment or a fine of Two Hundred
and Fifty Thousand Naira or both.
(3) Any person who, intentionally proposes, grooms or solicits, through any computer
system or network, to meet a child for the purpose of:
(a) engaging in sexual activities with the child;
(b) engaging in sexual activities with the child where –
(i) use is made of coercion, inducement, force or threats;
(ii) abuse is made of a recognized position of trust, authority or influence over the
child, including within the family; or
Child
pornography and
related offences.

-- 13 of 43 --

(iii) abuse is made of a particularly vulnerable situation of the child, mental or
physical disability or a situation of dependence;
(c) recruiting, inducing, coercing, exposing, or causing a child to participate in
pornographic performances or profiting from or otherwise exploiting a child for such
purposes;
commits an offence under this Act and shall be liable on conviction-­‐
(i) in the case of paragraphs (a) to imprisonment for a term of not more than 10
years and a fine of not more than N15,000,000.00; and
(ii) in the case of paragraphs(b) and(c) of this subsection, to imprisonment for a term
of not more than 15 years and a fine of not more than N25,000,000.
(4) For the purpose of subsection (1) above, the term “child pornography” shall
include pornographic material that visually depicts-­‐
(a) a minor engaged in sexually explicit conduct;
(b) a person appearing to be a minor engaged in sexually explicit conduct; and
(c) realistic images representing a minor engaged in sexually explicit conduct.
(5) For the purpose of this section, the term “child” or “minor” means a person
below 18 years of age.
24. 	Any person who knowingly or intentionally sends a message or other matter by
means of computer systems or network that -­‐
(a) is grossly offensive, pornographic or of an indecent, obscene or menacing
character or causes any such message or matter to be so sent; or
(b) he knows to be false, for the purpose of causing annoyance, inconvenience
danger, obstruction, insult, injury, criminal intimidation, enmity, hatred, ill will 	or
needless anxiety to another or causes such a message to be sent:
commits an offence under this Act and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of not
more than N7,000,000.00 or imprisonment for a term of not more than 3 years or to
both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) Any person who knowingly or intentionally transmits or causes the transmission
of any communication through a computer system or network -­‐
(a) to bully, threaten or harass another person, where such communication places
another person in fear of death, violence or bodily harm or to another person;
Cyberstalking.

-- 14 of 43 --

(b) containing any threat to kidnap any person or any threat to harm the person of
another, any demand or request for a ransom for the release of any kidnapped
person, to extort from any person, firm, association or corporation, any money or
other thing of value; or
(c) containing any threat to harm the property or reputation of the addressee or of
another or the reputation of a deceased person or any threat to accuse the
addressee or any other person of a crime, to extort from any person, firm,
association, or corporation, any money or other thing of value:
commits an offence under this Act and shall be liable on conviction-­‐
(i) in the case of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this subsection to imprisonment for a term
of 10 years and/or a minimum fine of N25,000,000.00; and
(ii) in the case of paragraph (c) and (d) of this subsection, to imprisonment for a term
of 5 years and/or a minimum fine of N15,000,000.00.
(3) A court sentencing or otherwise dealing with a person convicted of an offence
under subsections (1) and (2) may also make an order, which may, for the purpose of
protecting the victim or victims of the offence, or any other person mentioned in the
order, from further conduct which-­‐
(a) amounts to harassment; or
(b) will cause fear of violence, death or bodily harm; prohibit the defendant from
doing anything described/specified in the order.
(4) A defendant who does anything which he is prohibited from doing by an order
under this section, commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of
not more than N10,000,000.00 or imprisonment for a term of not more than 3 years
or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(5) The order made under subsection (3) of this section may have effect for a
specified period or until further order and the defendant or any other person
mentioned in the order may apply to the court which made the order for it to be
varied or discharged by a further order.
(6) Notwithstanding the powers of the court under subsections (3) and (5), the court
may make an interim order for the protection of victim(s) from further exposure to
the alleged offences.
25. 	(1) Any person who, intentionally takes or makes use of a name, business name,
trademark, domain name or other word or phrase registered, owned or in use by any
individual, body corporate or belonging to either the Federal, State or Local
Governments in Nigeria, on the internet or any other computer network, without
authority or right, and for the purpose of interfering with their use by the owner,
registrant or legitimate prior user, commits an offence under this Act and shall be
Cybersquatting.

-- 15 of 43 --

liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of not more than 2 years or a fine of
not more than N5,000,000.00 or to both fine and imprisonment.
(2) In awarding any penalty against an offender under this section, a court shall have
regard to the following -­‐
(a) a refusal by the offender to relinquish, upon formal request by the rightful owner
of the name, business name, trademark, domain name, or other word or phrase
registered, owned or in use by any individual, body corporate or belonging to either
the Federal, State or Local Governments in Nigeria; or
(b) an attempt by the offender to obtain compensation in any form for the release to
the rightful owner for use of the name, business name, trademark, domain name or
other word or phrase registered, owned or in use by any individual, body corporate
or belonging to either the Federal, State or Local Government of Nigeria.
(3) In addition to the penalty specified under this section, the court may make an
order directing the offender to relinquish such registered name, mark, trademark,
domain name, or other word or phrase to the rightful owner.
26. 	(1) Any person who with intent –
(a) distributes or otherwise makes available, any racist or xenophobic material to the
public through a computer system or network;
(b) threatens through a computer system or network –
(i) persons for the reason that they belong to a group distinguished by race, colour,
descent, national or ethnic origin, as well as, religion, if used as a pretext for any of
these factors; or
(ii) a group of persons which is distinguished by any of these characteristics;
(c) insults publicly through a computer system or network–
(i) persons for the reason that they belong to a group distinguished by race, colour,
descent or national or ethnic origin, as well as religion, if used as a pretext for any of
these factors; or
(ii) a group of persons which is distinguished by any of these characteristics; or
(d) distributes or otherwise makes available, through a computer system or network,
to the public, material which denies or approves or justifies acts constituting
genocide or crimes against humanity, Commits an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to imprisonment for a term of not more than 5 years or to a fine of not
more thanN10,000,000.00 or both such fine and imprisonment.
Racist and
xenophobic
offences.

-- 16 of 43 --

(2) For the purpose of subsection (1) of this section, the term “Crime against
humanity” includes any of the following acts committed as part of a widespread or
systematic attack directed against any civilian population, with knowledge of the
attack: murders, extermination, enslavement, deportation or forcible transfer of
population, imprisonment, torture, rape, sexual slavery, enforced prostitution, forced
pregnancy, enforced sterilization or any other form of sexual violence of comparable
gravity, persecution against an identifiable group on political, racial, national, ethnic,
cultural, religious or gender grounds, enforced disappearance of persons, the crime
of apartheid, other inhumane acts of similar character intentionally causing great
suffering or serious bodily or mental injury.
“Genocide” means any of the following acts committed with intent to destroy in
whole or in part, a national, ethnic, racial or religious group as such: killing members
of the group, deliberately inflicting on the group conditions of life calculated to bring
about its physical destruction in whole or in part; imposing measures intended to
prevent births within the group; forcibly transferring children of the group to another
group.
“racist or xenophobic material” means any written or printed material, any image or
any other representation of ideas or theories, which advocates, promotes or incites
hatred, discrimination or violence, against any individual group of individuals, based
on race, color, descent or national or ethnic origin, as well as religion if used as a
pretext for any of these factors.
27. 	(1) Any person who –
(a) attempts to commit any offence under this Act; or
(b) aids, abets, conspires, counsels or procures another person(s) to commit any
offence under this Act:
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to the punishment provided for
the principal offence under this Act.
(2) Any employee of a financial institution found to have connived with another
person or group of persons to perpetrate fraud using computer system(s) or
network, commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a
term of not more than 7 years and shall in addition, refund the stolen money or
forfeit any property to which it has been converted to the bank, financial institution
or the customer.
Attempt,
conspiracy,
aiding and
abetting.
28. 	(1) Any person who unlawfully produces, supplies, adapts, manipulates or procures
for use, imports, exports, distributes, offers for sale or otherwise makes available-­‐
(a) any device, including a computer program or a component designed or adapted
for the purpose of committing an offence under this Act;
Importation and
fabrication of E-­‐
Tools.

-- 17 of 43 --

(b) a computer password, access code or similar data by which the whole or any part
of a computer system or network is capable of being accessed for the purpose of
committing an offence under this Act; or
(c) any device, including a computer program designed to overcome security
measures in any computer system or network with the intent that the devices be
utilized for the purpose of violating any provision of this Act:
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of
not more than 3 years or a fine of not more than N7,000,000.00 or to both.
(2) Any person who with intent to commit an offence under this Act, has in his
possession any device or program referred to in subsection (1) of this section,
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of
not more than 2 years or to a fine of not more than N5,000,000.00 or to both such
fine and imprisonment.
(3) Any person who, knowingly and without authority, discloses any password,
access code or any other means of gaining access to any program or data held in any
computer or network for any unlawful purpose or gain, commits an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of not more than 2 years or to a
fine of not more than N5,000,000.00 or to both fine and imprisonment.
(4) Where the offence under subsection (1) of this section results in loss or damage,
the offender shall be liable to imprisonment for a term of not more than 5 years or to
a fine of not more than N10,000,000.00 or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(5) Any person who with intent to commit any offence under this Act uses any
automated means or device or any computer program or software to retrieve, collect
and store password, access code or any means of gaining access to any program,
data or database held in any computer, commits an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to imprisonment for a term of not more than 5 years or to a fine of not
more than N10,000,000.00 or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(6) Any persons who without lawful authority and or appropriate license where
required, with fraudulent intent, imports, transports or installs within the Federation
of Nigeria any tool, implement, item used or designed to be used in making, forging,
altering, or counterfeiting any electronic device, commits an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of not more than 7 Years or a fine of
not more than N5,000,000.00 or to both such fine and imprisonment.
29. 	(1) Any person or organization who being a computer based service provider and or
vendor does any act with intent to defraud and by virtue of his position as a service
provider, forges, illegally used security codes of the consumer with the intent to gain
any financial and or material advantage or with intent to provide less value for
money in his or its services to the consumer shall if corporate organization be guilty
of an offence and is liable to a fine of N5,000,000.00and forfeiture of further
Breach of
Confidence by
Service
Providers.

-- 18 of 43 --

equivalent of the monetary value of the loss sustained by the consumer.
(2) (a) Where an offence under this Act which has been committed by a body
corporate is 	proved to have been committed on the instigation or with the
connivance of or attributable to any neglect on the part of a director, manager,
secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate, or any officer purporting to
act in any such capacity, he, as well as the body corporate, where practicable, shall
be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against
and punished accordingly.
(b) Where a body corporate is convicted of an offence under this Act, the Court may
order that the body corporate shall thereupon and without any further assurances,
but for such order, be wound up and all its assets and properties forfeited to the
Federal Government.
(c) If the offender is a natural person, he commits an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to imprisonment for a term of not more than 7 Years and to a fine of not
more than N5,000,000.00 or to both such imprisonment and fine.
(3) 	Nothing 	contained 	in 	this 	section 	shall 	render 	any 	person 	liable 	to 	any
punishment, 	where 	he 	proves 	that 	the 	offence 	was 	committed 	without 	his
knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of the
offence.
30. 	(1) Any person who manipulates an ATM machine or Point of Sales terminals with the
intention to defraud shall be guilty of an offence and upon conviction sentenced to
Five Years imprisonment or N5, 000,000.00 fine or both.
(2) Any employee of a financial institution found to have connived with another
person or group of persons to perpetrate fraud using an ATM of Point of sales device,
shall be guilty of an offence and upon conviction sentenced to Seven Years
imprisonment without an option of fine.
Manipulation of
ATM/POS
Terminals.
31. 	(1) Without prejudice to any contractual agreement between the employer and the
employee all employees in both the public and private sectors must relinquish or
surrender 	all 	codes 	and 	access 	rights 	to 	their 	employers 	immediately 	upon
disengagement from their employment, and if such code or access right constitutes a
threat or risk to the employer, it shall, unless there is any lawful reason to the
contrary, be presumed that the refusal to relinquish or surrender such code or access
right is intended to be used to hold such employer to ransom.
(2) Any employee who, without any lawful reason, continues to hold unto the code
or access right of his employer after disengagement without any lawful reason shall
be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to 3 years imprisonment or
3,000,000.00 or both.
Employees
Responsibility.
32. 	(1) Any person who knowingly or intentionally engages in computer phishing shall be 	Phishing,
Spamming,

-- 19 of 43 --

liable upon conviction to 3 years imprisonment or a fine of N1, 000,000.00 or both.
(2) Any person who engages in spamming with intent to disrupt the operations of a
computer be it public or private or financial institutions shall be guilty of an offence
and liable upon conviction to 3 years imprisonment or a fine of N1, 000,000.00 or
both.
(3) Any person who engages in malicious or deliberate spread of viruses or any
malware thereby causing damage to critical information in public, private or financial
institution’s computers shall be guilty of an offence is liable upon conviction to 3
years imprisonment or a fine of N1, 000,000.00 or both.
Spreading of
Computer Virus.
33. 	(1) Any person who with intent to defraud, uses any access device including credit,
debit, charge, loyalty and other types of financial cards, to obtain cash, credit, goods
or service commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a
term of not more than 7 Years or a fine of not more than N5,000,000.00 or to both
such fine and imprisonment 	and shall further be liable to payment in monetary
terms the value of loss sustained by the owner of the credit card.
(2) Any person who uses:
(a) a counterfeit access device;
(b) an unauthorized access device;
(c) an access device issued to another person;
resulting in a loss or gain commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term of not more than 7 years or a fine of not more than
N5,000,000.00 and forfeiture of the advantage or value derived from his act.
(3) Any person who steals an electronic card commits an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to imprisonment for a term of not more than 3 years or to a fine of not
more than N1,000,000.00. He shall further be liable to repayment in monetary terms
the value of loss sustained by the cardholder or forfeiture of the assets or goods
acquired with the funds from the account of the cardholder.
(4) Any person who receives a card that he knows or ought to know to have been
lost, mislaid, or delivered under a mistake as to the identity or address of the
cardholder and who retains possession with the intent to use, sell, or to traffic it to a
person other than the issuer or the cardholder commits an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to not more than 3 years imprisonment or to a fine of not more than
N1,000,000.00 and shall further be liable to payment in monetary terms the value of
loss sustained by the cardholder.
(5) Any person who, with intent to defraud the issuer, a creditor, or any other
person, obtains control over a card as security for a debt commits an offence and
Electronic cards
related fraud.

-- 20 of 43 --

shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of not more than 3 years or
to a fine of not more than N3,000,000.00 or to such both fine and imprisonment and
shall further be liable to payment in monetary terms the value of loss sustained by
the card holder or forfeiture of the assets or goods acquired with the funds from the
account of the cardholder.
(6) Any person, other than the cardholder or a person authorized by him, who, with
the intend to defraud the issuer or a creditor, signs a card commits an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of not more than 3 years or a
fine of not more than N1,000,000.00.
(7) Any person who, with intent to defraud an issuer or a creditor, uses, for the
purpose of obtaining money, goods, services, or anything else of value, a card
obtained or retained fraudulently or a card which he knows is forged or expired, or
who obtains money, goods, services, or anything else of value by representing,
without the consent or authorization of the cardholder, that he is the holder of a
specified card, or by representing that he is the holder of a card and such card has
been validly issued, commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term of not more than 3 years and a fine of not more than
N1,000,000.00.
(8) (a) Any creditor who, with intent to defraud the issuer or the cardholder,
furnishes goods, services, or anything else of value upon presentation of a card which
he knows is obtained or retained fraudulently or illegally or a card which he knows is
forged, expired, or revoked commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term of not more than 3 years or a fine of not more than
N1,000,000.00 or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(b) Any Creditor who, with intent to defraud the issuer, or the cardholder, fails to
furnish goods, services, or anything of value which he represents in writing to the
issuer or the cardholder that he has furnished commits an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to imprisonment for a term of not more than 3 years or a fine of not
more than N1,000,000.00 or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(c) Any person who is authorized by a creditor to furnish goods, services, or anything
else of value upon presentation of a card or a card account number by a cardholder,
or any agent or employee of such person, who, with intent to defraud the issuer, or
the cardholder, presents to the issuer or the cardholder, for payment, a card
transaction record of sale, which sale was not made by such person or his agent or
employee, commits an offence and shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine of
not more than N500,000 and to imprisonment for 3 years.
(d) Any person who, without the creditor’s authorization, employs, solicits or
otherwise causes a person who is authorized by the creditor to furnish goods,
services or anything else of value upon presentation of a card account number by the
cardholder, or employs, solicits or otherwise causes an agent or employee of such
authorized person, to remit to the creditor a card transaction record of a sale that

-- 21 of 43 --

was not made by such authorized person or his agent or employee commits an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of not more
than 3 years or to a fine of not more than N1,000,000.00 or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
(9) Any person who with intent to defraud, possesses counterfeit cards, invoices,
vouchers, sales drafts, or other representations or manifestations of counterfeit
cards, or card account numbers of another person, commits an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of not more than 5 years or to a fine
of not more than N3,000,000.00 or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(10) Any person who receives, possesses, transfers, buys, sells, controls, or has
custody of any card-­‐making equipment with intent that such equipment be used in
the manufacture of counterfeit cards commits an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to imprisonment for a term of not more than 5 years or to a fine of not
more than N7,000,000.00 or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(11) Any person who, with intent to defraud another person, falsely alters any
invoice for money, goods, services, or anything else of value obtained by use of a
card after that invoice has been signed by the cardholder or a person authorized by
him, commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term
of not more than 3 years or to a fine of not more than N5,000,000.00 or to both such
fine and imprisonment.
(12) Any institution that makes available, lends, donates, or sells any list or portion of
a list of cardholders and their addresses and account numbers to any person without
the prior written permission of the cardholder(s), commits an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine of N10,000,000.00.
(13) An institution may make available to the Central Bank of Nigeria or a licensed
credit bureau, which seeks to determine only the cardholder’s rating, any list or
portion of a list of any cardholder and their addresses without the permission of the
cardholder, but must within 7 working days, give notice in writing of the disclosure to
the cardholder. Such institution which fails to comply with the requirement to notify
the cardholder, commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of not
more than N1,000,000.00.
34. 	Any person, other than the issuer, who receives and retains possession of two or
more cards issued in the name or names of different cardholders, which cards he
knows were taken or retained under circumstances which constitute a card theft
commits an offence and is liable on summary conviction to 3 years imprisonment or
to a fine of one N1,000,000.00and shall further be liable to repayment in monetary
terms the value of loss sustained by the cardholder or forfeiture of the assets or
goods acquired with the funds from the account of the cardholder.
Dealing in Card
of Another.
35. 	Any person other than an issuer or their authorized agent who sells a card or a
person who buys a card from a person other than an issuer or their authorized agent
Purchase or Sale
of Card of
Another.

-- 22 of 43 --

commits an offence and is liable on summary conviction to a fine of N500,000.00 and
shall further be liable to payment in monetary terms the value of loss sustained by
the card holder or forfeiture of the assets or goods acquired with the funds from the
account of the cardholder.
36. 	(1) Any person who with intent to defraud uses any device or attachment, e-­‐mails or
fraudulent website to obtain information or details of a cardholder commits an
offence and upon conviction is liable to imprisonment for a period of 3years or to a
fine of N 1,000,000.00 or both.
(2) 	Any 	person 	who 	fraudulently 	re-­‐direct 	funds 	transfer 	instructions 	during
transmissions over any authorized communications path or device and re-­‐directs
funds transferred electronically with an authorized account commits any offence and
upon conviction is liable to imprisonment for a period of 3years or to a fine of N
1,000,000.00 and shall further be liable to payment in monetary terms the value of
loss sustained by the cardholder or forfeiture of the assets or goods acquired with
the funds from the account of the cardholder.
Use of
Fraudulent
Device or
Attached E-­‐mails
and Websites.
PART IV -­‐ DUTIES OF FINANCIAL INSTUTUTIONS
37. 	(1) A financial institution shall —
(a) verify the identity of its customers carrying out Electronic financial transactions by
requiring the customers to present documents bearing their names, addresses and
other relevant information before issuance of ATM cards, credit cards, Debit cards
and other related electronic devices;
(b) apply the principle of know your customer in documentation of customers
preceding execution of customers electronic transfer, payment, debit and issuance
orders;
(2) Any official or organization who fails to obtain proper identity of customers
before executing customer electronic instructions in whatever way, commits an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N5,000,000.00
(3) Any financial institution that makes an unauthorized debit on a customers
account 	shall 	upon 	written 	notification 	by 	the 	customer, 	provide 	clear 	legal
authorization for such debit to the customer or reverse such debit within 72 hours.
Any financial institution that fails to reverse such debit within 72 hours , shall be
guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to restitution of the debit and a fine of N
5, 000,000.00.
Duties of
Financial
Institutions.
38.
DUTIES OF SERVICE PROVIDERS
(1) A service provider shall keep all traffic data and subscriber information as may be
prescribed by the relevant authority for the time being, responsible for the
regulation of communication services in Nigeria, for a period of 2 years.
Records
retention and
protection of

-- 23 of 43 --

(2) A service provider shall, at the request of the relevant authority referred to in
subsection (1) of this section or any law enforcement agency –
(a) preserve, hold or retain any traffic data, subscriber information, non-­‐content
information, and content data; or
(b) release any information required to be kept under subsection (1) of this section.
(3) A law enforcement agency may, through its authorized officer, request for the
release of any information in respect of subsection (2) (b) of this section and it shall
be the duty of the service provider to comply.
(4) Any data retained, processed or retrieved by the service provider at the request
of any law enforcement agency under this Act shall not be utilized except for
legitimate purposes as may be provided for under this Act, any other legislation,
regulation or by an order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(5) Anyone exercising any function under this section shall have due regard to the
individual’s right to privacy under the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,
1999 and shall take appropriate measures to safeguard the confidentiality of the data
retained, processed or retrieved for the purpose of law enforcement.
(6) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any person who contravenes any of the
provisions of this section commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term of not more than 3 years or a fine of not more than
N7,000,000.00 or to both fine and imprisonment.
data.
39. 	Where there are reasonable grounds to suspect that the content of any electronic
communication is reasonably required for the purposes of a criminal investigation or
proceedings, a Judge may on the basis of information on oath;
(a) order a service provider, through the application of technical means to intercept,
collect, record, permit or assist competent authorities with the collection or
recording 	of 	content 	data 	and/or 	traffic 	data 	associated 	with 	specified
communications transmitted by means of a computer system; or
(b) authorize a law enforcement officer to collect or record such data through
application of technical means.
Interception of
electronic
communications.
40. 	(1) It shall be the duty of every service provider in Nigeria to comply with all the
provisions of this Act and disclose information requested by any law enforcement
agency or otherwise render assistance howsoever in any inquiry or proceeding under
this Act.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, a service provider shall, at
the request of any law enforcement agency in Nigeria or at its own initiative, provide
assistance towards –
Failure of service
provider to
perform certain
duties.

-- 24 of 43 --

(a) the identification, apprehension and prosecution of offenders;
(b) the identification, tracking and tracing of proceeds of any offence or any
property, equipment or device used in the commission of any offence; or
(c) the freezing, removal, erasure or cancellation of the services of the offender
which enables the offender to either commit the offence, hide or preserve the
proceeds of any offence or any property, equipment or device used in the
commission of the offence.
(3) Any service provider who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1) and (2) of
this section, commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of not
more than N 10,000,000.00.
(4) In addition to the punishment prescribed under subsection (3) of this section and
subject to the provisions of section 20 of this Act, each director, manager or officer of
the service provider shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term of not
more than 3 years or a fine of not more than N7,000,000.00 or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
PART V -­‐ ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
41. 	(1) The office of the National Security Adviser shall be the coordinating body for all
security and enforcement agencies under this Act and shall;
(a) provide support to all relevant security, intelligence, law enforcement agencies
and military services to prevent and combat cybercrimes in Nigeria;
(b) ensure formulation and effective implementation of a comprehensive cyber
security strategy and a national cyber security policy for Nigeria;
(c) establish and maintain a National Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT)
Coordination Center responsible for managing cyber incidences in Nigeria;
(d) establish and maintain a National Computer Forensic Laboratory and coordinate
utilization of the facility by all law enforcement, security and intelligence agencies;
(e) build capacity for the effective discharge of the functions of all relevant security,
intelligence, law enforcement and military services under this Act or any other law on
cybercrime in Nigeria;
(f) establish appropriate platforms for public private partnership (PPP);
(g) coordinate Nigeria’s involvement in international cyber security cooperation to
ensure the integration of Nigeria into the global frameworks on cyber security; and
(h) do such other acts or things that are necessary for the effective performance of
Co-­‐ordination
and
enforcement.

-- 25 of 43 --

the functions of the relevant security and enforcement agencies under this Act.
(2) The Attorney – General of the Federation shall strengthen and enhance the
existing legal framework to ensure –
(a) conformity of Nigeria’s cybercrime and cyber security laws and policies with
regional and international standards;
(b) 	maintenance 	of 	international 	co-­‐operation 	required 	for 	preventing 	and
combating cybercrimes and promoting cyber security; and
(c) effective prosecution of cybercrimes and cyber security matters.
(3) All law enforcement, security and intelligence agencies shall develop requisite
institutional capacity for the effective implementation of the provisions of this Act
and shall in collaboration with the Office of the National Security Adviser, initiate,
develop or organize training programmers nationally or internationally for officers
charged 	with 	the 	responsibility 	for 	the 	prohibition, 	prevention, 	detection,
investigation and prosecution of cybercrimes.
42. 	(1) There is established, a Cybercrime Advisory Council (in this Act referred to as “the
Council”) which shall comprise of a representative each, of the Ministries and
Agencies listed under the First Schedule to this Act.
(2) A representative appointed pursuant to subsection (1) of this section shall be an
officer not below the Directorate Cadre in the Public Service or its equivalent.
(3) A member of the Council shall cease to hold office if –
(a) he ceases to hold the office on the basis of which he became a member of the
Council; or
(b) the President is satisfied that it is not in the public interest for the person to
continue in office as a member of the Council.
(4) The meetings of the Council shall be presided over by the National Security
Adviser.
(5) The Council shall meet at least four times in a year and whenever it is convened
by the National Security Adviser.
Establishment of
the Cybercrime
Advisory Council.
43. 	(1) The Council shall –
(a) create an enabling environment for members to share knowledge, experience,
intelligence and information on a regular basis and shall provide recommendations
on issues relating to the prevention and combating of cybercrimes and the
promotion of cyber security in Nigeria;
Functions and
powers of the
Council.

-- 26 of 43 --

(b) formulate and provide general policy guidelines for the implementation of the
provisions of this Act;
(c) 	advise 	on 	measures 	to 	prevent 	and 	combat 	computer 	related 	offences,
cybercrimes, threats to national cyberspace and other cyber security related issues;
(d) establish a program to award grants to institutions of higher education to
establish Cyber security Research Centers to support the development of new Cyber
security defences, techniques and processes in the real-­‐world environment; and
(e) promote Graduate Traineeships in Cyber security and Computer and Network
Security Research and Development
(2) The Council shall have power to regulate its proceedings and make standing
orders with respect to the holding of its meetings, notices to be given, the keeping of
minutes of its proceedings and such other matters as Council may, from time to time
determine.
44. 	(1) There is established a Fund, which shall be known as the National Cyber security
Fund (in this Act referred to as “The Fund”).
(2) There shall be paid and credited into the Fund established under subsection (1) of
this section and domiciled in the Central Bank of Nigeria:
(a) A levy of 0.005 of all electronic transactions by the businesses specified in the