SOURCE: https://placng.org/lawsofnigeria/print.php?sn=411
Retrieved: 2026-08-14
Publisher: Policy and Legal Advocacy Centre (PLAC), Laws of Nigeria compendium
Note: No standalone PDF of this Act was found from an official source; this is
the full text as published on PLAC's "Laws of Nigeria" print view, retrieved
and saved verbatim (not manually re-typed) to avoid transcription errors.
Cross-check against an official Federal Government Gazette copy before
treating a specific section number as authoritative for a production answer.

======================================================================

NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL COURT ACT

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

PART I
Constitution of the National Industrial Court

SECTION
1. Establishment of the National Industrial Court.
2. Appointment of the President and Judges of the Court.
3. Tenure of office of the President and Judges of the Court.
4. Precedence.
5. Salaries and allowances of the President and Judges of the Court.
6. Seal of the Court.

PART II
Jurisdiction and Law

7. Jurisdiction, etc.
8. Power of the Court in civil appeals.
9. Appeals to the Court of Appeal.
10. Enforcement of judgment.
11. Cessation of jurisdiction, etc.
12. Practice and procedure.
13. Administration of law and equity.
14. Determination of matter completely and finally.
15. Rules of equity to prevail.
16. Injunctions.
17. Orders of mandamus, prohibition and certiorari.
18. Injunction in lieu of quo warranto.
19. Power of Court to make certain orders.
20. Reconciliation in civil cases.

PART III
Sitting and Distribution of Business

21. Divisions of Court.
22. Sittings.
23. Lack of quorum.
24. Power of transfer.
25. Proceedings to be disposed of by a panel of Judges.
26. Powers of a panel of Judges in Court and in chambers.
27. Discharge of orders made in chambers.

PART IV
General Provisions as to Trial and Procedure

28. Decision of the Court.
29. Use of assessors.
30. Reference for report.
31. Reference for trial.
32. Powers and remuneration of referees and arbitrators.
33. Statement of case pending arbitration.
34. Power of the Court to impose terms as to costs.
35. Meaning of "reference".

PART V
Rules of Court

36. Power to make Rules of Court.

PART VI
Miscellaneous

37. Chief Registrar and other officers of the Court.
38. Negligence or misconduct of officers.
39. Restriction on officers of the Court buying property sold at execution.
40. Costs.
41. Allowances to witness.
42. How allowances are to be defrayed.
43. Person in Court may be required to give evidence though not summoned.
44. Witness summons in civil causes and matters.
45. Representation of Government.
46. Right to practice.
47. Appeal not to operate as a stay of execution.
48. Notes of evidence and minutes of proceedings to be kept by presiding Judge.
49. Inspection.
50. President of the Court may appoint commissioners for affidavits or for taking evidence.
51. Protection of commissioners from action.
52. Judicial officers not liable to be sued if they acted in good faith.
53. Repeal of Part II of Cap. 432 L.F.N. 1990, etc.
54. Interpretation.
55. Short title.

NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL COURT ACT

An Act to provide for the establishment of the National Industrial Court as a superior court of record; and for related matters.

[2006 No. 37.]
[14th June, 2006]
[Commencement.]

ENACTED by the National Assembly of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.

PART I
The Constitution of the National Industrial Court

1. Establishment of the National Industrial Court
(1) There is established a court to be known as the National Industrial Court (in this Act referred to as "the Court").
(2) The Court shall consist of-
(a) the President of the Court who shall have overall control and supervision of the administration of the Court; and
(b) not less than twelve Judges:
Provided that in appointing Judges for the Court, one-third of the Judges so appointed shall satisfy the requirements of the provisions of subsection (4)(b) of section 2 of this Act.
(3) The Court shall-
(a) be a superior court of record; and
(b) except as may be otherwise provided by any enactment or law, have all the powers of a High Court.

2. Appointment of the President and Judges of the Court
(1) The President of the Court shall be appointed by the President, on the recommendation of the National Judicial Council, subject to confirmation by the Senate.
(2) The appointment of a person to the Office of a Judge of the Court shall be made by the President on the recommendation of the National Judicial Council.
(3) A person shall not be eligible to hold Office of the President of the Court unless the person is qualified to practice as a legal practitioner in Nigeria and has been so qualified for a period of not less than ten years and has considerable knowledge and experience in the law and practice of industrial relations and employment conditions in Nigeria.
(4) A person shall not be eligible to hold the Office of a Judge of the Court unless-
(a) the person is a legal practitioner in Nigeria and has been so qualified for a period of not less than ten years and has considerable knowledge and experience in the law and practice of industrial relations and employment conditions in Nigeria; or
(b) the person is a graduate of a recognised university of not less than ten years' standing and has considerable knowledge and experience in the law and practice of industrial relations and employment conditions in Nigeria.
(5) If the Office of the President of the Court is vacant, or if the person holding the Office is for any reason unable to perform the functions of the Office, then until a person has been appointed to and assumed the functions of that Office or until the person holding the Office has resumed those functions, the President shall appoint the most senior Judge of the Court having the qualification to be appointed as President of the Court as provided under subsection (3) of this section to perform those functions.
(6) Except on the recommendation of the National Judicial Council, an appointment pursuant to the provisions of subsection (5) of this section shall cease to have effect after the expiration of three months from the date of such appointment and the President shall not re-appoint a person whose appointment has lapsed.
(7) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (1), (2), (3) and (4) of this section, any person holding the Office of the President or ordinary member of the Court immediately before the commencement of this Act shall be deemed to have been appointed under this Act.

3. Tenure of Office of the President and Judges of the Court
The provisions in the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 relating to the tenure, removal, gratuity and pension of any person holding or appointed to act in the Office of the Chief Judge or Judge of the Federal High Court, shall respectively apply to any person holding or appointed to act in the Office of the President of the Court or as a Judge of the Court.

4. Precedence
(1) The President of the Court shall take precedence over the other Judges of the Court, and the other Judges shall take precedence after the President of the Court in order of seniority.
(2) The President of the Court shall rank equal with the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court or the Chief Judge of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja in precedence and the Judges of the Court shall, in like manner, rank with the Judges of the Federal High Court or High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja.

5. Salaries and allowances of the President and the Judge of the Court
(1) There shall be paid to-
(a) the President of the Court, such salaries, emoluments and allowances as are payable to the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court or of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja; and
(b) a Judge of the Court, such salaries, emoluments and allowances as are payable to a Judge of the Federal High Court or of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja.
(2) Any amounts payable under this section shall be charged and paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the Federation in accordance with section 81(3) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999.

6. Seal of the Court
(1) The Court shall have and may use a seal bearing a device or impression approved by the President of the Court with the inscription, "The National Industrial Court".
(2) The seal of the Court shall be kept by the President of the Court and a duplicate thereof shall be kept by each of the other Judges and the President of the Court and other Judges may entrust the seal or the duplicate to such officers of the Court as they may think fit.
(3) The seal shall be a seal of the Court for all purposes for which it may be required under the provisions of any enactment or Rules of Court.

PART II
Jurisdiction and Law

7. Jurisdiction, etc.
(1) The Court shall have and exercise exclusive jurisdiction In civil causes and matters-
(a) relating to-
(i) labour, including trade unions and industrial relations; and
(ii) environment and conditions of work, health, safety and welfare of labour, and matters incidental thereto; and
(b) relating to the grant of any order to restrain any person or body from taking part in any strike, lock-out or any industrial action, or any conduct in contemplation or in furtherance of a strike, lock-out or any industrial action;
(c) relating to the determination of any question as to the interpretation of-
(i) any collective agreement;
(ii) any award made by an arbitral tribunal in respect of a labour dispute or an organisational dispute;
(iii) the terms of settlement of any labour dispute or organisational dispute as may be recorded in any memorandum of settlement;
(iv) any trade union constitution; and
(v) any award or judgment of the Court.
(2) The National Assembly may by an Act confer such additional jurisdiction on the Court in respect of such other causes or matters incidental, supplementary or related to those set out in subsection (1) of this section.
(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act or any other enactment or law, the National Assembly may by an Act prescribe that any matter under subsection (1)(a) of this section may go through the process of conciliation or arbitration before such matter is heard by the Court.
(4) An appeal shall lie from the decisions of an arbitral tribunal to the Court as of right in matters of disputes specified in subsection (1)(a) of this section.
(5) For the purposes of subsection (4) of this section, a party to an arbitral award shall be entitled to obtain a copy of the records of the arbitral proceedings and the award from the arbitral tribunal.
(6) The Court shall, in exercising its jurisdiction or any of the powers conferred upon it by this Act or any other enactment or law, have due regard to good or international best practice in labour or industrial relations and what amounts to good or international best practice in labour or industrial relations shall be a question of fact.

8. Power of the Court in civil appeals
The Court may, upon hearing an appeal under subsection (4) of section 7 of this Act, draw any inference of fact and-
(a) confirm, vary or set aside the judgment, award or order of the Court, tribunal or body mentioned therein; or
(b) order a rehearing and determination on such terms as the Court may think just; or
(c) order judgment to be entered for any party; or
(d) make a final or other order on such terms as the Court may think fit to ensure the determination on the merits of the matter in dispute between the parties.

9. Appeals to the Court of Appeal
(1) Subject to the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 and subsection (2) of this section, no appeal shall lie from the decisions of the Court to the Court of Appeal or any other court except as may be prescribed by this Act or any other Act of the National Assembly.
(2) An appeal from the decision of the Court shall lie only as of right to the Court of Appeal only on questions of fundamental rights as contained in Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999.

10. Enforcement of judgment
The Court shall have the power to enforce its judgment and accordingly, may commit for contempt any person or a representative of a trade union or employers' organisation who commits any act or an omission which in the opinion of the Court constitutes a contempt of the Court.

11. Cessation of jurisdiction, etc.
(1) In so far as jurisdiction is conferred upon the Court in respect of the causes or matters mentioned in the foregoing provisions of this Part of this Act, the Federal High Court, the High Court of a State, the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja or any other court shall, to the extent that exclusive jurisdiction is so conferred upon the Court, cease to have jurisdiction in relation to such causes and matters.
(2) Nothing in subsection (1) of this section shall affect the jurisdiction and powers of the Federal High Court, the High Court of a State or of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja to continue to hear and determine causes and matters which are part-heard before the commencement of this Act and any proceedings in any such causes or matters, not determined or concluded at the expiration of one year after the commencement of this Act, shall abate.

54. Interpretation
(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-
"employee" means a person employed by another under oral or written contract of employment whether on a continuous, part-time, temporary or casual basis and includes a domestic servant who is not a member of the family of the employer;
"employer" means any individual or body corporate or unincorporate who has entered into a contract of employment to employ any other person as an employee or apprentice;
"trade dispute" means any dispute between employers and employees, including disputes between their respective organisations and federations which is connected with-
(a) the employment or non-employment of any person;
(b) terms of employment and physical conditions of work of any person;
(c) the conclusion or variation of a collective agreement; and
(d) an alleged dispute.

55. Citation
This Act may be cited as the National Industrial Court Act 2006.

SUBSIDIARY LEGISLATION
No Subsidiary Legislation
