1. (1) This Law may be cited as the Recovery of Premises Law.
(2) The Governor by order declare that the provisions of this Law shall not
apply to any town, village, place or area specified' in such order and
upon such an order coming into force the provisions of this Law shall
cease to apply to such towns, villages, places or areas as may be
specified in the order:
Provided that all proceedings instituted prior to and which are
pending at the date of the coming into force of the said order and which
are in respect of any premises in any town, village, place or area
referred to in the order may be continued and carried through to
completion, notwithstanding such order, in all respects as if the Law
still applied to the town, village, place or area in which are situate the
premises in question.
(3) Where the provisions of the Law are withdrawn from any town,
village, place or area by order in Council as aforesaid such withdrawal
shall remain operative only so long as there is in force an order effecting
such withdrawal.
2. (1) Definitions-
" agent" means any person usually employed by the landlord in the
letting of the premises or in the collection of the rents thereof or specially
authorised to act in a particular manner by writing under the hand of the
landlord;

L.N. 47 of 1955.
N.R.L.N. 120 of
1960.
L.N. 47 of 1955.
" court" includes the High Court and District Courts but does not include a
native court;
"landlord" in relation to any premises means the person entitled
to the immediate reversion of the premises or if the property therein is
held in joint tenancy or tenancy in common, any of the persons entitled to
the immediate reversion, and includes the attorney or agent of any such
landlord, and also any person appointed to act on behalf of the state in
dealing with any lands, buildings, premises or corporeal or incorporeal
hereditaments vested in the state;
" mesne profits" means the rents and profits which a tenant who holds
over or a trespasser has or might have received during his occupation of
the premises and which he is liable to pay as compensation to the person
entitled to possession;
"premises" includes-
(a) a house or building or any part thereof together with its grounds or
other appurtenances; and
(b) land without any buildings thereon;
"rent" includes any part of any crop rendered, or any equivalent given in
kind or in labour, in consideration of which a landlord has permitted any
person to use and occupy any land, house, premises, or other corporeal
hereditament;
"tenant" includes any person occupying premises whether on payment of
rent or otherwise but does not include a person occupying premises
under a bona fide claim to be the owner of the premises;
"the rules" means the rules for the time being in force relating to the
practice and procedure of the courts in the exercise of their respective
civil jurisdiction made under the law by which such courts were
established or any law amending the same;

Forms.
Jurisdiction.
Costs.
L.N. 47 of 1955.
N.R.L.N. 120 of
1960.
Jurisdiction of
District Jugde.
Jurisdiction in
respect of rent.
(2) A reference to a form means a reference to such form as set out in the
Schedule,
Jurisdiction
3. Proceedings under this Law may be brought in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
4. Where proceedings under this Law are brought in the High Court and the
amount recovered or the value of the rent as ascertained does not exceed
an amount which could have been recovered without any set-off or with an
admitted set-off in a District Court the plain tiff shall not be allowed costs in
excess of those which he could have recovered had he brought the action
in a District Court:
Provided that when-
(a) the proceedings were in respect of a bona fide claim of right set
up by the defendant under section 5; or
(b) 	the court certifies that there was a question of law involved
which rendered it advisable for a decision thereon to be made
by the High Court,
the court may award costs on the scale applicable to actions brought in
the High Court.
5. The jurisdiction of a District Judge shall not be ousted by the defendant
bona fide setting up the title of a third person, unless he holds under, or
claims through, such third person.
6. Where the rent includes any part of a crop or any value given in kind or in
labour or any amount which is not specified as of precise monetary value
proceedings under this Law may be brought in a District Court:
Provided that if during the hearing it appears that the amount of the
claim is a sum exceeding the rate two hundred pounds a year the plain tiff

Tenant.
Form D.
Length of
notice.
may abandon the excess and proceed and thereupon the District Court
shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the action, so however that-
(a) subject to the provisions of any law limiting the jurisdiction of the
District Judge hearing the action, the plaintiff shall not recover in any
such action a sum greater than two hundred pounds, and
(b) the judgment of the court shall be in full discharge of all demands in
respect of the particular cause of action.
Notices to Quit and of Intention to Recover Possession
7. When and so soon as the term or interest of the tenant of any premises,
held by him at will or for any term either with or without being liable to
the payment of any rent, shall have ended or shall have been duly
determined by a written notice to quit as in Forms A, B or C, whichever
is applicable to the case, or otherwise duly determined, and such tenant,
or, if such tenant does not actually occupy the premises or only occupies
a part thereof, any person by whom the same or any part thereof shall
then be actually occupied, shall neglect or refuse to quit and deliver up
possession of the premises or of such part thereof respectively, the
landlord of the said premises or his agent may cause the person so
neglecting or refusing to quit and deliver up possession to be served, in
the manner hereinafter mentioned, with a written notice, as in Form D
signed by the landlord or his agent, of the landlord's intention to
proceed to recover possession on a date not less than seven days from
the date of service of the notice.
8. (1) Where there is no express stipulation as to the notice to be given by
either party to determine the tenancy the following periods of time shall
be given-
(a) in the case of a tenancy at will or a weekly tenancy a week's

Giving of notice.
Landlord’s
notice.
notice;
(b) 	in the case of a monthly tenancy, a month's notice;
(c) 	in the case of a quarterly tenancy, a quarter's notice;
(d) 	in the case of a yearly tenancy, half a year's notice;
Provided that in the case of a yearly tenancy the tenancy shall not
expire before the time when any crops growing on the land, the subject
of the tenancy, would in the ordinary course be taken, gathered, or
reaped if such crops were crops which are normally reaped within one
year of planting and such planting was done by the tenant prior to the
giving of the notice.
(2) The nature of a tenancy shall, in the absence of any evidence to the
contrary, be determined by reference to the time when the rent is paid
or demanded.
9. Notices referred to in section 8 may be given at any time prior to the
date of termination of the current terms of tenancies, but they shall not
be effective if the time between the giving of the notice and the time
when the tenancy is to be determined is less than the respective periods
set out in section 8.
Summons
10. (1) Upon the expiration of the time stated in any such notice of the
landlord's intention to recover possession, if such tenant or any person
holding or claiming by, through or under him, neglects or refuses to quit
and deliver up possession accordingly, the landlord may apply,
according to whether he is taking action in the High Court or a District
Court, for the issue of a writ or enter a plaint, as in Form E, at his option
either against such tenant or against such person so neglecting or
refusing, in the court of the division or district, as the case may be, in
which the premises are situate for the recovery of the same and

Form I.
Summons to
recover.
Claim for mesne
profits.
thereupon a summons as in Form F shall issue to such tenant or person
so neglecting.
(2) If mesne profits are claimed and the writ or plaint shows that the
rate at which such mesne profits are claimed is the same as the rent of
the premises judgment shall be entered for the ascertained amount as a
liquidated claim and if mesne profits are claimed at the rate of the said
rent up to the time of obtaining possession the judgment shall be
extended to include such claim and shall be as in the second alternative
in Form 1.
11. Where any summons for the recovery of any premises as is hereinbefore
specified shall be served on or come to the knowledge of any sub-tenant
of the plaintiff's immediate tenant, such sub-tenant being an occupier of
the whole or of a part of the premises sought to be recovered, he shall
forthwith give notice thereof to his immediate landlord, failure to give
such notice rendering him liable to forfeit such sum as the court may
consider just but not exceeding three years' rent of the premises held by
such sub-tenant to such landlord, such sum to be recoverable, whatever
the amount thereof, by such landlord by action in the court from which
such summons shall have issued, and such landlord, on the receipt of
such notice, if not originally a defendant, may be added or substituted as
a defendant to defend possession of the premises in question.
12. The landlord may, either together with his writ or plaint for the
recovery of the premises or in answer to any claim or counter-claim
made in respect of any unexhausted improvements hereinafter
provided, claim to recover, or to set-off, rent or mesne profits, or both,
accruing in respect of such premises since the ending or determination
of the tenancy down to the day appointed for the hearing, or to any
preceding day named in the plaint.

Claim for arrears
of rent.
Compensation.
Consent of
landlord.
Recover the
land.
Court may
appoint.
13. The amount claimed under any writ or plaint for arrears of rent and
mesne profits shall be treated as one claim.
14. Where a tenant executes on his holding any improvement he shall be
entitled, subject to the provisions of section 15, at the termination of the
tenancy, on quitting his holding, to receive compensation from his
landlord in respect of any such improvement which continues
unexhausted.
15. A tenant shall not be entitled to compensation in respect of any
improvement, unless he has executed it with the previous consent in
writing of the landlord.
16. A tenant may at any time make any claim, or counter-claim before a court
against the landlord in respect of any unexhausted improvement, and the
court may, if it thinks it expedient, hear and determine any counter-
claim, together with any claim to recover possession of the holding in
respect of which the counter-claim is made:
Provided that-
(a) 	in the case of a counter-claim, notice in writing of the particulars of
such counter-claim shall be given to the landlord three clear days
before the day fixed for the hearing of the claim to recover
possession, and
(b) 	the court at the hearing shall have power to enlarge the time for
the delivery of such notice as aforesaid, or for the hearing of the
counter-claim.
Appraisers
17. (1) A court may-
(a) 	appoint by writing as in Form G one or more persons to estimate
the value of any unexhausted improvements in respect of which a

Report.
Summons.
claim or counter-claim is made, and to report in writing as in Form
H to the court thereon; and
(b) 	make such order as it thinks fit, in respect of the expenses and
remuneration of such persons.
(2) The provisions of the Stamp Duties Law shall not apply to persons
appointed by the court under this section.
18. Such report in writing, purporting to be signed by the person, or persons,
appointed by the court under section 17, shall be received in evidence in
all courts, until it be shown that such report was not so signed as
aforesaid.
Hearing and Judgment
19. (1) If the defendant shall not at the time named in the summons or any
adjournment thereof, show good cause to the contrary, then on proof of
the –
(a) defendant still neglecting or refusing to deliver up the premises; and
(b) 	yearly rent of the premises; and
(c) 	holding; and
(d) expiration or other determination of the tenancy with the time and
manner thereof; and
(e) 	title of the landlord, if such title has accrued since the letting of the
premises; and
(f) 	service of the summons, if the defendant does not appear thereto,
the court may order as in Forms I, J or K, whichever is applicable to the case,
that possession of the premises mentioned in the plaint be given by the
defendant to the plaintiff either forthwith or on or before such day as the
court shall think fit to specify.
(2) If the plaintiff at the time named in the summons or at any adjournment
thereof shall fail to obtain an order under subsection (1) the defendant shall

Warrant of
possession.
Enforcement.
Form.
Possession in
force.
Entry on
premises.
be entitled to judgment and may be awarded costs, such judgment and award
being as in Form L.
20. Where a landlord is entitled to possession of any premises, the court may
issue a warrant of possession, notwithstanding that the counter-claim is
undetermined or unsatisfied.
21. If the order of the court given under section 19 be not obeyed, the court,
whether such order can be proved to have been served on the defendant or
not, shall, at the instance of the plaintiff, issue a warrant of possession, and if
such order be that possession of the premises be given forthwith by the
defendant to the plaintiff, the court shall at the instance and cost of the
plaintiff issue a warrant of possession forthwith.
22. A warrant of possession shall entitle the plaintiff to be put in possession
of the premises to which the warrant relates; it shall be as in Form M and
the certificate of execution thereof shall be as in Form N.
23. Every warrant of possession shall on whatever day it may be issued, bear
date of the day next after the last day named by the court in the order for
the delivery of possession of the premises in question, and shall continue
in force for three months from such date and no longer, but no order for
delivery of possession need be drawn up or served.
24. Any warrant to give possession of premises shall justify the person
named thereon or to whom it is directed in entering upon the premises
named therein, with such assistants as he shall deem necessary, and in
giving possession accordingly:
Provided that no entry upon such warrant shall be made on a
Sunday or public holiday or at any time except between the hours of six
o'clock in the morning and six o'clock in the afternoon.

Protection.
Penalty.
Unlawfully
retaking
possession.
Service of
process.
25. No action and no prosecution may be brought against the judge, District
Judge or other officer of the court by whom a warrant of possession shall
have been issued, or against any sheriff or other person by whom such
warrant may be executed, or document affixed, for issuing such warrant
or executing the same respectively, or affixing such document, by reason
that the person by whom the same shall be sued out had not lawful right
to the possession of the premises.
26. Any person who resists, molests, assaults or in any way obstructs any
officer when engaged in the execution of such warrant as aforesaid, or
any person appointed under section 17 and engaged in carrying out an
order of a court shall be guilty of an offence against this Law and shall be
liable, on summary conviction, to a fine of fifty pounds or to
imprisonment for six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
27. Any person, who has been put out of possession under a warrant of
possession, and unlawfully retakes possession of the premises after
possession has been given to the landlord, shall be guilty of an offence
against this Law and shall be liable, on summary conviction, to a fine of
fifty pounds or to imprisonment for six months or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
Service
28. Service of any notice of determination of a tenancy or of a notice to quit
or any summons, warrant or other process shall be effected in
accordance with the provisions of the law relating to the service of the
civil process of District Courts, and if the defendant cannot be found, and
his place of dwelling shall either not be known, or admission thereto
cannot be obtained for serving any such process, a copy of the process
shall be posted on some conspicuous part of the premises sought to be

Appeal.
Use of forms.
recovered, and such posting shall be deemed good service on the
defendant.
Landlord's liability to Special Damages
29. Where the landlord at the time of applying for a warrant of possession as
aforesaid had lawful right to the possession of the premises, or of the part
thereof so held over as aforesaid, neither the said landlord nor his agent,
nor any other person acting in his behalf, shall be deemed to be a
trespasser by reason merely of any irregularity or informality in the mode
of proceeding for obtaining possession under the authority of this Law,
but the party aggrieved may if he think fit bring an action for such
irregularity or informality, in which the damage alleged to be sustained
thereby shall be specially claimed, and may recover full satisfaction for
such special damage with costs of suit:
Provided that if the special damage so claimed be not proved, the
defendant shall be entitled to a judgment, and that if proved, but assessed
by the court at any sum not exceeding five shillings, the plaintiff shall
recover no more costs than damages, unless the court before whom the
trail shall have been held shall certify upon the record that full costs
ought to be allowed.
Appeal
30. Either party to any proceedings to recover possession of any premises under
this Law may appeal from the decision of the court to the appropriate court of
appeal whatever may be the value of the subject-matter in dispute.
Forms
31. (1) Subject to the express provisions, if any, of the rules the forms contained
in the Schedule may, in accordance with any instructions contained in the
said forms, and with such variations as the circumstances of the particular

case may require, be used in the cases to which they apply, and, when so
used, shall be good and sufficient in law.
(2) The forms may be added to, repealed, replaced or varied by rules made as
aforesaid in all respects as if the forms had originally been so made.

Section 7.
Section 7.